 MBOMBELA – Entries are now open for the fourth Innibos National Craft Awards. Launched in 2017, the competition last year attracted over 1 200 entries, up by over 400 entries from the inaugural competition. The awards are organised by John-Anthony Boerma and Jan Bhuda of ArtAid Africa and are hosted under the auspices of the National Innibos Arts Festival. Luné van Wyk. ALSO READ: System severely constrained – probability of load shedding still low From the get-go, the organisers were intent on creating a competition that was as inclusive as possible and four years later, this remains unchanged. Entry is thus free of charge and the entry process is simple – requiring only that a photo of the craft item be submitted, along with the entrant’s details. “The competition is focused on showcasing the excellence of skill among South Africa’s crafters, from established artists with their own studios to those emerging craftsmen whose mastery is forged from nothing more than their own determination,” said John Anthony. The overall winner will walk away with R50, 000, the first runner-up with R20, 000 and the second runner-up with R15, 000. Just as valuable as the prize money, however, are the connections forged with like-minded individuals and the exposure of their talent on a national stage. Sandra Jacobs. ALSO READ: WATCH: CANSA Lowveld undertakes Shades of Pink Walk Both John Anthony and Jan have years of industry experience – as artist, trainer and curator – and intimately know just how exceptional the level of craft skill is in South Africa. Nonetheless, they have been amazed by the quality of entries, diversity of mediums and technical expertise shown by the entrants over the past years. They invite all artists in the craft sector to submit entries in the following disciplines: grass-weaving, ceramics, beadwork, wirework, wood, jewellery, paper, fabric painting and printing, quilting, leatherwork, pewter, glasswork, embroidery and mixed media.  ALSO READ: FOTO’S: By Nellie Miere is kinders nog kinders The winners will be announced at the National Innibos Craft Awards Exhibition and Prize-giving on  June 21, next year, at which all 40 shortlisted entries will be displayed. The exhibition will remain open to members of the public for the duration of the annual Innibos National Arts Festival, which attracts over 100 000 visitors each year.  ALSO READ: Springboks, our world champions “Innibos aims to create a platform for the development and enjoyment of all genres of art, so the National Craft Awards is a natural evolution of Innibos, which is synonymous with celebrating South African talent,” said Sandra Jacobs, one of the founders of the Innibos National Arts Festival. Entering is easy! Crafters have until midnight on May 1, 2020, to enter. They need simply take a photo of their entry – next to a matchbox for size of scale, and either email it to crafts@innibos.co.za or send it to 071-621-3597 via MMS or WhatsApp. There is no entry fee. Ts&Cs apply and can be found on the competition’s Facebook page – https://www.facebook.com/Innibosnationalcraftawards. Remember to include your name, the town in which you live and your contact details.  ALSO READ: Business indaba to address South Africa’s current job crisis Entrants who have not heard from the organisers within 30 days of the closing date must take it as given that they did not make the shortlist for final judging. The finalists must be available to attend the exhibition opening and prize-giving on June 21, 2020. For more information, please WhatsApp Jan Bhuda on 071-621-3597 or email John Anthony Boerma at artaid@lantic.net. To keep up to date with the Innibos National Craft Awards, like us on Facebook: @InnibosNationalCraftAwards, follow us on Twitter: @InnibosCA and connect with us on Instagram: Innibos National Craft Awards.  