 WHITE RIVER – This event was established three years ago by Sylvia Masango to recognise the best of the best of healthcare practitioners in Mpumalanga. “There are many times that healthcare is painted in a bad light,” she said. “These awards are there to recognise and celebrate all the good things.” This year there were four categories of awards.
Deceased stalwarts were honoured, as were non-profit organisations in each of the three districts with Community Star Awards. Honorary awards were given to those who had made the biggest difference in their respective fields, and the most anticipated category, the Voted Awards, contained healthcare practitioners voted for by members of the public. ALSO READ: Endangered Aloe simii in jeopardy due to planned development Programme directors, Dave Walters and Samke Matse, kept the programme running smoothly and entertained everyone with their back-and-forth banter. Poet Silandzile, Joanne and Danielle Fisher of Dannys Angels and singer Hebron performed live. The MEC for health, Sasekani Manzini, was the keynote speaker for the evening. “The health system, public or private, is dynamic, with challenges emanating each day,” she said. “What makes me so appreciate the Health Excellence Awards winners is that the challenges in the system did not deter them from doing their best.” MEC for economic development and tourism, Pat Ngomane, and Judge President Frans Legodi also supported the event. The awards were preceded by the first annual Mpumalanga HIV and TB Congress, where healthcare professionals from across the province were given updates on the latest research around these conditions. The following people from Ehlanzeni District were winners in their categories: Community star awards
Nhlengelo Home-based Care Honorary awards
Russels Pharmacy
Dr Francois Theron
Sponono Baloyi
Cebelihle Shongwe
Sr Ntombifuthi Ngobeni
Dr Emmanuel Zwane
Dr Abraham Varghese Voted awards
Best dietician: Thammy Masinga (Mbombela)
Best dentist: Dr Aaron Ndimande (Hazyview)
Best speech and audio therapist: Letricia Dlamini (Acornhoek)
Best occupational therapist: Cherise Cloete (Barberton)
Best nurse: Maureen Mathebula (Hazyview)
Social media star: Thammy Masinga (Mbombela) Deceased stalwarts
– Dr Ernest Valster
– Dr Kabelo Mashile
– Dr Bafana Zwane
– Thomas Sengwayo
– Dr John Hoyland ALSO READ: Square’s festive art fills hearts with joy