 The National Credit Act (NCA) entitles consumers to a once yearly free copy of their credit report. In June this year,  consumers requested 248 785 credit reports from different credit bureaus. Of these,  75,61 per cent (188,094) were issued without charge, and the remaining 24.39 per cent  (60,691) were issued with charge. Nosipho Zikishe, manager: Credit Bureau Compliance at the National Credit Regulator (NCR) encourages more consumers to make use of their right provided by the NCA by requesting for a free copy of credit reports. Zikishe said that consumers are often under the impression that information from the credit bureaus is only negative. She added that this was not the case because credit bureaus hold both positive and negative information and consumers are encouraged to adopt a culture of knowing their credit worthiness and the correctness of this information.  ALSO READ: High ranked court official arrested for fraud and corruption She further advised that in 2015, the government introduced regulations on the removal of paid-up adverse information and -judgments. These provided that after consumers settle their debts where they were adversely listed or where judgment was obtained against their names, those listings should be removed within seven days of payment. Unfortunately, some consumers are being charged for a service that is free. It is the credit provider’s responsibility to instruct the credit bureaus to remove the listing from the consumer’s credit report after settlement of debt. Consumers should not allow to be taken for granted and made to pay for such services. This reminder comes at a time when the NCR, together with industry,  noted that consumers are being taken for a ride where companies are charging consumers for services that are being offered free of charge either by the NCR or the different registrants.  ALSO READ:Illegal strike by water purification staff affects water supply If a consumer would like to challenge the listings on their credit report, they can do so by contacting the credit bureaus directly. This service is offered for free, said Zikishe. Whether, the dispute is in favour of the consumer or not, the consumer will not be charged for lodging a dispute. She warned consumers not to fall prey to many advertisements that often mention that they will remove consumers’ ‘blacklistings’, without the consumer having to settle the debt. This is misleading and is untrue. Zikishe advised consumers to rather use the money they are charged to pay towards their debts and add to their savings. “Our message is clear that consumers should not unknowingly pay for services that are offered for free.” If consumers are not receiving a satisfactory outcome with the credit bureaus when seeking assistance, all is not lost, there is redress where they can escalate their matters to the National Credit Regulator, she added.  ALSO READ: SANParks take drastic steps to curb millions in fruitless and wasteful expenditure Other services that are offered for free by the NCR include the registration of credit providers, credit bureaus, debt counsellors, alternative dispute resolution agents and payment distribution agents. Even lodging a complaint at the NCR does not cost a cent, advised Zikishe. Consumers can directly lodge a complaint at the NCR without paying someone to do so for them. Consumers should know that by choosing to have someone offer these services at a fee should be out of choice and not ignorance, she concluded. 