Die Naaldekokers van Acacia Preprimêr was oorstelp van vreugde toe Laevelder en McDonald’s Nelspruit hulle dagtake plotseling met ‘n kaasburger en ‘n yskoue sappie onderbreek het. Nihan Pringle was die held van die dag en hy was luidkeels toegejuig toe die klas hoor dat dit te danke aan sy ma was dat hulle so ‘n heerlike versnapering gratis kon geniet.  The classroom was filled with excitement at Curro Castle when Lowvelder and McDonalds Nelspruit surprised the grade R, Winnie the Pooh class with a #MacBust. Teacher Tanya Roos explained why this class should be treated with cheeseburgers and juice from McDonald’s. This teacher knows that the children spend so much of their lives at school, and she wants every moment in her classroom to be memorable. The busters were just in time because the little ones had already fetched their lunchboxes to snack. They packed them away after seeing their treats and enjoyed every bite. Each pupil thanked their teacher for the big surprise with a hug.  White River Pre-Primary’s little ones found themselves on Lowvelder‘s and McDonald’s most-wanted list when they were busted.
The faces of the 24 toddlers lit up when they were surprised by a representative of the newspaper and staff members from the new McDonald’s at White River Crossing. It was all thanks to young Enrico Dent, who received loud applause when his classmates learned he was at the heart of securing their cheeseburgers and juice. “We recently moved from Mbombela to White River and my son was enrolled in this school. He was accepted with love and so much care from teacher Suzette in the Olifant class. They are hard-working toddlers, and he even practises the day’s work from class at home in the afternoon,” his mother, Tricia, wrote to Lowvelder.  The grade two learners of St Peter’s School were pleasantly surprised after being busted by McDonald’s Nelspruit and Lowvelder. The class was busted after pupil, Unathi Ndhlovu’s mom contacted the newspaper with a request that teacher Daleen Roberts be recognised for her outstanding work. Judging by the whoops and loud cheers when the busters arrived, it was clear that the youngsters would enjoy their cheeseburgers and juice. One learner quipped, “This is definitely the best surprise of my life.” Unathi helped to distribute the treats. Roberts will be leaving the school within a month or two, and she welcomed the gesture which spoke of the close bond she has forged with the young learners. “They have been a wonderful bunch to teach and today ranks among the top memories I will hold dear after having taught this class, ” she said.   If you think your class deserves to be surprised, send Julia Burger your motivation to marketing@lowvelder.co.za.  