 MBOMBELA – Curro Nelspruit learner, Anke Schnepel recently received the fantastic news that she passed the audition for Curro Create’s From Broadway to Bird Street. Curro Create is the creative engine of the Curro family of schools, which runs national projects, including the Curro Arts Superhero and Curro National Youth Theatre Festival programmes. It is powered by theatremakers Hennie van Greunen and Pedro Kruger from Wordsmith’s Theatre Factory, two acclaimed theatre entrepreneurs who believe that being creative is a natural skill in every human being – nowhere more so than in young people. Also read: KNP rejoices after good rainfall From Broadway to Bird Street is a full musical theatre production that will debut at the 2020 Toyota US Woordfees in Stellenbosch and will also be performed at Innibos later in the year. The cast will be joined on stage by real-life vocal legends Germandt Geldenhuys, Corlea Botha, Timothy Moloi, Lynelle Kennedy and André Terblanché. Earlier this year learners from Curro schools across the country were invited to send audition videos to the organisers and from 360 auditions, and only 23 pupils were selected. For the talented Anke, a grade 11 learner, 2019 was a very rewarding year with a string of cultural prizes and accolades. She was the overall winner in the Light Music Competitive Programme for high school girls at the Nelspruit Eisteddfod and received numerous rewards for her role as Leani in the drama Talaiporia at the ATKV Tienertoneel and the Curro Create National Youth Theatre Festival. WATCH: Arthur the brave rhino calf She was also awarded a Kryptonite award (achieving 95 to 100 per cent) for her performance at the Curro Arts Superhero competition in August. Anke is extremely excited and honoured to be part of this groundbreaking event and cannot wait to join the cast for rehearsals in Cape Town early in February. Helena van Jaarsveld, head of the drama department at Curro Nelspruit, is over the moon.
“Anke is very talented and Curro Nelspruit could not be more proud of her achievements and cannot wait to see her in action on stage.”