 It was overcast and at times, quite chilly between the koppies of the historic Pilgrim’s Rest. It was a day, though, that reverberated the sounds of engines around the hills and throughout town. The Lowveld Enduro Club has become quite famous for the excellent routes offered by every single event in the series, and is thus well supported by riders from all over. This event drew no less than about 220 entrants. Why is this? ALSO READ: Harley chapters ride for goodwill at Rainbow Slowveld Bash “Well,” said Robin Flores, “we have devised a formula, or recipe if you want, that caters for every single type of rider; the little one, the first timer, the old timer, the pros, the weekenders and lady riders – experienced or not. If you have a bike and want to ride and develop your skills in a controlled and safe, but still challenging, environment, we’ve got you covered. The categories are also structured in a manner that provides riders with options of, for example, riding perhaps one red loop and two green loops, and so forth. And depending on the latter, riders can do up to 60km on the day of the event.” With enduro riding, more often than not involving the whole family, the challenge for route master Flores was to offer routes that will challenge the brave and experienced riders as well as encourage the young ones to venture out and copy Dad on a less daunting route just around the pit area. The pink route was ideal for the latter, and also introduced the little ones to water crossings. Albeit often requiring more than just a little help from either Dad or friends. It is endearing (and sometimes not) on so many levels to observe the gentle coaching that occurs between dads and sons at these crossings. ALSO READ: Ringbrothers unveil one-of-a-kind Ford Mustang Then there is a Green and Red route – the latter being seriously challenging and ideally suited to the pro riders. The top three finishers in the Pro Elite class at this event were Mauritz Meiring, followed by Barend Erasmus and then Robert Garvie in third. “We cater for family participation – scenic and challenging routes. Our events are considered to be of the best one-day enduro riding experiences in the country,” said Robin. “Our formula is sha na na – our organisation is top notch. So if you have not as yet experienced the best, it is time!”