 MBOMBELA – The Care Buddies treated senior citizens from Laeveldrus Old Age Home to live musical entertainment and a Christmas luncheon at the Nelspruit Tennis Club hall on Tuesday. Performer Tom Jacobie transported the seniors to a different time and place with his rendition of classics such as Roy
Orbison’s version of “California Blue” and a host of other Christmas favourites. The guests were nodding along and mouthing the words to their favourite songs while waiting for their Christmas lunch to be served. The entertainment organiser, Judy Black, was kept on her feet with the rest of the team, as she made sure that each place setting received a plate of food. Cecile Steyn. ALSO READ: Women’s self-defence puts power in empowerment The rest of the Care Buddies team checked the kitchen for the long-awaited dessert of malva pudding, which is a traditional South African favourite. The Laeveldrus Old Age Home’s inhabitants enjoyed each other’s conversation and were eager to see what surprises their Christmas crackers would reveal. “At Care Buddies, we definitely care for the seniors in our community,” Black said. “Too often they are forgotten by their families, especially during this time of the year when their loved ones go on holiday. Christa Claassens. ALSO READ: Brave ranger single-handedly apprehends gang of rhino poachers “Occasions like these provide the perfect opportunity to enjoy one another’s company while listening to
music from our generation,” Black added. Once the lunch was served, the guests tucked in and the conversation flowed while Jacobie belted out more Christmas tunes. The host, Marius Crouse, reminded everyone present that there was always so much to be thankful for. Marius Crouse. ALSO READ: Keep our children safe this festive season, says ChildSafe “Through His Grace we are reminded of the recent rain, for a roof over our heads and the opportunity for an occasion such as this where we can reminisce about the old days and look forward to the new,” he said.