 More than 100 trucks were stationed next to the road after their drivers refused to deliver or make collections, without having engaged with truck company management, mine management and other stakeholders. The drivers and ATDF members included those of Reinhardt Transport, Cargo Carriers, Heymans Kole and Comotrans. The police and the local traffic department were on scene, ensuring the safety of other motorists making use of the road leading to Burgersfort and Ohrigstad. Lowvelder spoke to the drivers on the scene. The operators indicated that work conditions were becoming unbearable and alleged that the companies for which they work had no sympathy for the drivers. Their complaints included long working hours, which were exacerbated by new work and salary conditions, and the employment of foreign nationals without the necessary qualifications which, in turn, contributed to local job losses and salary cuts. ALSO READ: ATDF forces truck drivers into truck stop, demands foreign drivers be let go The drivers revealed to the newspaper that they do not get enough rest. “We are tired. Tired on the roads, driving load after load. Our work conditions changed and we are now being paid per load. If you don’t deliver the loads, you don’t get paid. We used to be paid per hour. Now we get paid per load delivered. This forces us to chase the loads.” According to them, they feel like the companies are using them for cheap labour. “We have families, we have kids. We are struggling to make ends meet and pay even the necessities.” The drivers also said that Lydenburg has no truck stops available so they have to sleep next to the roads in town at night. “What about our safety at night?” The members said that all they ask is a meeting between the truck companies and the mines. “They, however, do not respond to us. They don’t care to even listen to our pleas.” For the whole of Monday, the trucks did not move from the spot where the drivers had parked them. On Tuesday, the drivers were, however, back on the road. The newspaper sent through various queries to the long-haul companies mentioned above. By the time of going to print, no response was received. One driver told the newspaper on Tuesday that a lot can still happen should negotiations not take place between employers and drivers. “A lot of things can happen if these issues are not resolved.” Members of the ATDF union carried out a peaceful strike on account of employment disputes. ALSO READ: ATDF vows to continue disruption of trucking services this Sunday