 One of Hi-Tech Nelspruit’s N4 patrol teams has been clamping down on crime in the city.
He immediately stopped to assist. “One man identified himself as an off-duty police officer and asked for assistance to subdue an armed suspect,” confirmed Callum MacPherson, regional operational manager of Hi-Tech. With Malewa’s assistance, the suspect was arrested. “The arrest came after the off-duty police officer saw that the suspect was carrying a firearm. When he
wanted to question him, the suspect attempted to attack him.” The suspect and illegal firearm were taken to the Nelspruit Police Station. ALSO READ: Brave ranger single-handedly apprehends gang of rhino poachers This is just one of the many times the N4 patrol vehicle has assisted road users on the N4 and the KaNyamazane Road. According to MacPherson, this vehicle has been serving the Maputo Corridor between the Sasol on the N4 and the toll gate in Kaapmuiden for more than 17 years and is solely dependent on the Lowveld’s gracious sponsors. “The N4 patrol serves a dual purpose keeping road users safe and assisting them, plus blocking off the very well-known escape routes of dangerous criminals.” “For all the years in operation, the N4 patrol has made a noteworthy difference in guarding Mbombela by being the roadblock to escaping thieves and hi-jackers.”  These members have assisted on countless occasions with farm attacks and armed robberies along their route. A shining example was a recent farm attack on the Uitkyk Road. “The members of the N4 patrol could not drive all the way to the home due to bad road conditions, so they simply parked the vehicle and ran the rest of the way to assist the victims until the ambulances, Bossies Community Justice and the police could arrive.” Countless stranded motorists have been assisted, whether it be with a jumpstart, some fuel or assistance until mechanics or tow-in services arrived. This truly is one of the Lowveld’s own initiatives that has untold value for everyone, MacPherson concluded.