 MBOMBELA – The bail application of Bina Mfandifuna Masuku (44), the former master of the High Court in Mpumalanga, and Elvis Kgosiemang (35) continued in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Friday. During their formal bail application, which started on Wednesday, the state opposed bail on the basis that the accused had misrepresented themselves. The two were arrested last week in connection with defrauding the public of money from deceased estates amounting to R1,7 million. Several complaints were lodged by victims claiming that Masuku allegedly directed beneficiaries of estates to her boyfriend to process their claims. Kgosiemang is alleged to have transferred estate money to a trust and used it for his personal benefit. Beneficiaries of the money could not get access to money that had been left to them by their deceased relatives. They were since charged with fraud, corruption and money laundering. Masuku was also separately charged with contravention of the Illegal Immigration Act. READ MORE: High ranked court official arrested for fraud and corruption Masuku, a Malawian national, is said to have misled the state by claiming to be a South African citizen. It is also alleged that she submitted false documents to the Department of Justice when applying for a job. The state also said the payments made to her while working for the department were under investigation. The Ministry of Justice and Correctional Services issued a statement on Tuesday November 12, confirming that Masuku had been dismissed by the department. The attorney for the accused, Dimakatso Mashego, reading the affidavit by Masuku, said she and Kgosiemang were no longer a couple, although they are living in one house. Kgosiemang is renting a room in the house in which Masuku lives. Their relationship had ended in 2017. Mashego said that Masuku was born in South Africa and left for Malawi when she was in standard two, and returned when she was in standard 10. She got her documents when she was a minor with the help of her parents. The bail hearing is set to resume next week Thursday and Friday. ALSO READ: Hailstorm blows roofs off houses in Makoko, damages crops on farms