 MBOMBELA -Zander Kotze, who had been severely assaulted on July 7, was treated in the intensive care unit at Mediclinic Nelspruit. He was moved to Clayton House Hospital on August 12, where he passed away. ALSO READ: Community saddened by Golf Club Victims’ death The autopsy report of Kotze, who was laid to rest on August 28 at the Nederduitsch Reformed Church, is pivotal to the successful prosecution of his assailant. The report, which would indicate his cause of death has still not been made public. Brig Leonard Hlathi, the provincial spokesman for the police, indicated that “the autopsy results have been received, but the contents thereof cannot be communicated due to it being an active case”. Hlathi made this revelation after Lowvelder questioned the police on whether they are in possession of the actual report and if they can reveal the cause of Kotze’s passing. Morné van Rooyen will face murder charges in court tomorrow. He was arrested for attempted murder, and first appeared in court on July 12 after a fight outside the Mbombela Golf Club left Kotze in a coma. The police spokesman, Capt Zandile Gqawa, previously confirmed that the charge of attempted murder was changed to murder. She further declared that WO Jerry Mamba, who is part of Lt Col Erhard Ströh’s team, will be the investigating officer. “Kotze’s autopsy will be held as soon as possible in Johannesburg to obtain further evidence for the trial court,” she said at the time. Bossies Community Justice (BCJ) issued a reward of R25 000 for any information which could lead to the successful prosecution of the person who caused Kotze’s untimely death. BCJ called upon all eyewitnesses with credible information regarding the events which unfolded on the fateful night, to come forward. Gqawa confirmed that Van Rooyen had opened an assault case against Mienkie, Zander’s wife. The matter was remanded to obtain a copy of the autopsy report and for further investigation. ALSO READ: Reward in Zander Kotze case raised to R25 000 Any person with reliable information must contact Ströh on 082-464-5721 or Albert Gryvenstein from BCJ on 082-567-5212.