 SKUKUZA – Roland Koller died in Netcare Milpark Hospital on Wednesday. A giraffe calf, that had been hit by a taxi on Sunday morning, fell on the vehicle he and his wife had been travelling in. The incident occurred on the road between Mopani and Shingwedzi camps. ALSO READ: Hole in KNP fence a poacher’s dream Koller, an anthroposophic physician, was critically injured while his wife sustained light injuries. One of Koller’s work colleagues in Switzerland, Daniela Tugutelmann, confirmed that they had been informed of his death. Alex and Athena Pitsillis told Lowvelder that they had arrived on the scene as taxi passengers were pulling the injured Koller from the vehicle. “Twenty kilometres from Mopani Rest Camp, four taxis overtook us at speed. We had our speedometer set to 48 kilometres per hour, so we are certain than they were going faster than the speed limit of 50 kilometres,” the Pitsillises said. “The giraffe had landed on the roof of the hired safari vehicle, which was driving in the opposite direction. The giraffe was jerking and twitching until it died.” Jaco Gericke, from CPF Medical Phalaborwa, responded to the accident scene and after stabilising the patient found that he had a head injury and a mandibular fracture. The paramedic informally measured the length of the tyre skid marks and found them to be 35 metres long. “The road’s surface in the KNP is of such a nature that it tends to leave long skid marks if you suddenly brake, even when travelling at only 50 kilometres per hour. From my perspective as a qualified accident investigator, the skid marks are longer than they should have been if the taxi driver had been keeping to the speed limit,” Gericke said. Spokesman for Limpopo SAPS, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, confirmed that the driver of the Toyota Quantum and a passenger with head injuries had been taken to Maphuta Hospital. ALSO READ: KNP tourist dies in Johannesburg hospital Initially a case of reckless and negligent driving was opened. He could not be reached for comment at the time of going to press as to whether the charge will be changed to culpable homicide after Koller’s death. Ike Phaahla, communications manager for the KNP, confirmed that tourist monitors and traffic police have been instructed to have zero tolerance with traffic offenders. “Appropriate speeding fines will be issued by officials. The cameras will be commissioned on November 18. It is important to mention that drivers and tourists must change their attitudes and observe the speed limits imposed in the park,” he said.