 BARBERTON – “The situation is critical and will make the proposed water rationing very difficult to implement because of the limited water we are allocated daily,” Minnaar explained. “It has become virtually impossible to get the reservoirs filled, because they are running out of water. Cutting off the water supply to certain areas is a possible solution, but this will not necessarily be done according to the schedule, because areas which are bigger in size have to be cut off,” he said. ALSO READ: Water rationing on the cards for Barberton after poor rainfall Minnaar believes that this approach will allow the water to be forced into the reservoirs. “There are currently two big and one small reservoirs servicing the area, which are not even at half capacity. Last Friday, we reported that the water levels at Lomati Dam were at 18,9 per cent. This coming Friday, I estimate the levels to have dropped anywhere between five to eight weeks’ water supply left. “This means that there is a strong possibility that we will be heading into next year without water.” He also factored in the relatively small catchment area and added that even if rainfall increased over the next few weeks, it would not be enough to sustain Barberton residents. “Lomati Dam is a relatively old dam and a large amount of sediment has built up on the bottom over the years. If for instance the dam levels are at 10 per cent, the real level would be closer to eight per cent, if that much.” On a regular basis, the areas which are higher up have experienced days without water for more than a month now. He said that a similar situation is prevalent in areas such as Cathyville and Emjindini.
Help is under way and plans have been implemented to alleviate the situation. “Officials in Barberton are working against the clock. They have made ten 10 000-litre JoJo tanks available, with two from the Nelspruit Lion’s Club and the City of Mbombela pitching in to make the situation bearable.” The tanks would be distributed throughout Umjindi from Verulam to the town, Burgerville, Cathyville and Emjindini. “By now we have a good idea which are the critical areas and these will be centrally distributed so the affected communities have access to water. The City of Mbombela have provided four extra tankers to transport the water, which will be collected from water points at Agnes Mine.” Barberton Mines have also been instrumental in upgrading borehole infrastructure and re-equipping boreholes which have been vandalised over the years. ALSO READ: Water crisis looms if taps run dry “The collecting of water bottles from the Nashua Building in Mbombela has been progressing well and we would like to thank Mbombela and White River residents who have shown their support.” Distribution of the bottled water started on Wednesday, with about 120 bottles handed out from the Eureka Centre. The Uniwisp Kaapsehoop Marathon organisers have also joined the fray, donating more than 200 bags of water sachets with 50 sachets in one bag. “We have to give credit to the municipal workers in Umjindi for their efforts in this difficult time. They do not have the easiest job and are not always appreciated for the work they do,” Minnaar concluded.