 In September 2019, Toyota Motor Corporation announced that cumulative global sales of its Land Cruiser series had surpassed 10 million units (a number achieved on August 31, according to their records). The rugged construction and Toyota’s commitment to QDR has produced a vehicle that has empowered customers around the world to conquer any terrain that presents itself.  Land Cruisers can be found in the harshest conditions, at the forefront of humanitarian efforts, serving as transport vessels for supplies in the mines of Australia, and assisting in harvesting food supplies on the steep slopes of Costa Rica. The Land Cruiser range consists of three distinct family groups – the 70-series, the Land Cruiser Prado and Land Cruiser 200. While the packaging, usage and target market of each are slightly different, they all share the “unbreakable” DNA developed by their forefathers. LC 70 – Offered in both single and double-cab variants with a choice of 4.0-litre petrol, 4.2-litre turbodiesel straight six or 4.5-litre V8 turbodiesel engines. FJ Cruiser – A modern-day tribute to the historical FJ40-series model, with distinctive styling and 4.0-litre V6 power. ALSO READ: Eurol renews partnership with Toyota Gazoo Prado – The medium-sized Land Cruiser SUV, offering seven-seat capacity, comfort, luxury and a choice of 3.0-litre turbodiesel or 4.0-litre V6 petrol engines (all mated to heavy duty automatic transmission). Offered in three grades TX, VX and VX-L.  200-series – The flagship of the Land Cruiser range, the ultimate overlanding vehicle, with space, luxury and high-tech driver-support technologies to take you anywhere. Available in both utility-focused GX and opulent VX-R grades. On the local front the Land Cruiser range has proven extremely popular with South African motorists – perfectly suiting the varied terrain, outdoor lifestyle and remote settings our country offers. The Land Cruiser 200 is the segment leader in the full-size SUV category, with a 33% share and average monthly volume of 93 units. The Prado remains a firm favourite in the large SUV segment with around 87 units finding new homes every month and occupying the number 2 position with a 15% share. A total of 3 684 Land Cruisers (70-series, Prado and 200-series) have been sold on local soil YTD September 2019. Based on the LC 79 Double-cab V8 model, the special edition Namib presents a turn-key package for serious off-road enthusiasts. ALSO READ: Connect for a more mobile Toyota/Lexus Outfitted with an array of utility-enhancing accessories, which includes a steel front bumper with integrated heavy-duty nudge bar and headlight protectors, tubular rear step with integrated towbar, protective loadbin skins, distinctive front grille, heavy-duty interior seat covers and roof console.  The ride and handling has been upgraded by means of Old Man Emu suspension components, and larger 265/75/R16 Cooper Discoverer S/T Maxx tyres. In celebration of both the 10-million milestone and the locally produced Namib Special Edition, a South African media contingent embarked on an adventure to the northernmost point of the Namib desert – to a town aptly named Namibe in southern Angola.  Conquering the infamous “Doodsakker” coastal track (which is only accessible during spring tide) the group made its way across the Atlantic Ocean to the abandoned “ghost-town” island of Baia dos Tigres. ALSO READ: Toyota welcomes new sales manager Previously a peninsula off the Angolan coast, it was separated from the mainland in 1962 by a storm – rendering ‘Tigres an island. After the freshwater feed project was abandoned, Dos Tigres became a ghost town.  Employing a specially constructed raft, an Ivory White Land Cruiser 79 Namib was transported onto the island – making it the first vehicle on the island since 1974 – further establishing Land Cruiser as the Master of Africa. Pictures: Cornel van Heerden