 BARBERTON – The City of Mbombela is considering introducing water restrictions to discourage high water consumption. It was not clear at the time of going to press if this would have been on the agenda of Thursday afternoon’s council meeting. However, Barberton councillor Philip Minnaar expected the municipality’s investigation into the water situation at the meeting. “We are anticipating that the dates in which the tariffs will be introduced and the types of punitive measures for non-adherence will be released after the report is read by the Water Committee at the council meeting,” he said. Barberton in particular has been hit hard by the drought. A number of stakeholders have joined forces to alleviate the water shortages faced by the townspeople. The town’s main water source is obtained from Lomati Dam. The City’s spokesman, Joseph Ngala, said Lomati Dam is currently at 19,6 per cent. Mbombela spokesman, Joseph Ngala. ALSO READ: Drought in KNP devastating for animals These low levels have prompted interventions from Barberton Mines, the Department of Water and Sanitation and the DA. Barberton Mines have implemented a three-fold contingency plan to ease the town’s water woes, according to its head of local economic development, Norman Hartmann. “Essentially, there are three things we are doing to help alleviate the situation. Barberton Mines have donated ten 1 000-litre JoJo tanks to the Department of Water and Sanitation, which will be installed at a number of emergency points. Norman Hartmann. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Two people confirmed killed in Marloth Park

“Secondly, we have donated 900 metres of piping of 110-millimetre diameter to install a dedicated water supply line from the Church Street borehole to Pike Reservoir. This will give more flexibility in terms of the required water reticulation.” He added that the last effort includes assisting the department to re-equip non-operational boreholes, as Barberton Mines seeks a sustainable solution to the looming water crisis. The DA has also stepped up the party’s efforts and is in the process of arranging water collection points in Mbombela for bottled water supplies to be transported to Barberton. Minnaar said they have a drop-off point for bottled water at the Nashua building. Phillip Minnaar. ALSO READ: Water crisis looms if taps run dry

“All the collection points have not been finalised, but will be made available once areas have been earmarked and their suitability discussed,” he said. Ngala added that the situation in Barberton was experienced throughout Mbombela. “Any intervention to deal with the water challenges will be for the entire city. We urge all members of the community to use water sparingly.”