 WHITE RIVER – Remembrance Sunday is held annually on the second Sunday in November, closest to Armistice Day, which marked the ceasefire that put an end to all hostilities of WWI at 11:00, on November 11, 1918. They assembled on Sunday at the Memorable Order of Tin Hats (MOTH) Shellhole in White River. The chairman of Mpumalanga Shellhole, Karel de Beer, an Angolan bush war veteran, said the soldiers gave their lives in order for us to have a tomorrow. “We all fought for a common purpose and we are here to commemorate all our fallen friends that have died in action from all the war conflicts since WWI.” Wreaths were laid and a moment of silence was observed during the Steven-Hamilton Pipe Band’s melodies that evoked nostalgia among those that attended the event. The South African National Defence Forces’ Regiment Botha also marched in formation, which was described as a fantastic show of support and a very professional demonstration by De Beer. He also commended the Lowveld Aero Club who did a flyby and have done so for the past 40 years. ALSO READ: Dogs impress at Honorary Rangers Indaba When laying the wreaths, John Shaw represented the British South African Police, Andy Haslam the British Parachute Regiment, Robbie Robertse the South African Parachute Regiment, Ben Engelbrecht the South African Infantry Division, Dewald Jacobs the MOTH Ex-Services Cottage Association, Jack Swanepoel the Animal Handlers Regiment and Jon Tombs the Stevenson-Hamilton Pipe Band. “It is important for people to read and never forget the sacrifices which were made by brave young men who fought in the various wars,” Col Olck Otto, a war veteran, said. “Wars are so senseless, really,” he added. Fred Naudé (96), the last remaining World War Two war veteran, had this to say about this historic day: “Even after all these years, since my attendance thereof from 1947, it is still the most important day of my life.” The MOTH Shellhole’s Nelspruit leg of this historic event took place yesterday evening, which marked the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month since the armistice in 1918.  The Stevenson-Hamilton Pipe Band. ALSO READ: Kurt Darren stel nuwe CD bekend in Mbombela