 BARBERTON – Burgerville, or Katanga, as it is known locally, has seen a rise in violent incidents after two feuding groups came to blows recently. Charges and counter-charges were laid at the Barberton Police Station, and as Lt Col Sipho Manana delved into the issue, he realised that the problems lay much deeper. “To bring peace to Burgerville, there are issues which needs to be looked at seriously. The need to establish a community policing forum and step up patrols to maintain law and order is important,” he said. The Ward 42 councillor, Mongezi Nkosi, chaired the meeting and noted their concerns. According to residents, the area is plagued by unemployment, drug and alcohol abuse and other issues which have given rise to feelings of frustration. Ward 42 councillor, Mongezi Nkosi. ALSO READ: Alleged sex offender to reappear in court after rape Bruno Jaftha asked that the security discussion, which topped the evening’s agenda, be moved to the end as
emotions were still raw. It was agreed that high youth unemployment would receive priority. They were concerned that youths of the area were ignored in terms of employment opportunities at Barberton Mines, the prison and the police service. A matriculant lamented this and said, “I have applied to SAPS many times. Each time my application has been denied. I fail to understand why more opportunities are not made available for matriculants from Katanga.” Priest Bruno Jaftha. ALSO READ: WIN tickets to the ‘POURformance of the year Mongezi urged them to form a committee to look at the issues such as housing, the indigent subsidy, ridding the area of drug peddlers and the state of infrastructure, which needed to be attended to urgently. He called for unity among residents. “When the community unites, I can be the conduit through which any problems are reported. I will raise it with the mayor. The community needs to rally as one to find solutions.” The residents bemoaned the area’s infrastructure and the seasonal job opportunities the youth receive, mainly through short-term projects. The community voiced their concerns about a number of issues plaguing the area. ALSO READ: President visits Mbombela to open High Court “We have trained, skilled artisans, unemployed for years. When they become frustrated, they resort to drug and alcohol abuse. We know that idle hands are the devil’s playground,” a resident, Vollene Baxen, said. As the meeting concluded, it was resolved that a steering committee and CPF be appointed at the next one, which will be held at 18:00 in the church next Tuesday.