 MBOMBELA – Local government schools are beyond capacity. This is a grave concern for parents, as 600 learners, mostly 2020’s grade ones, remain without placement in the Lowveld, a number confirmed by Department of Education spokesman, Jasper Zwane. He said that the four public primary schools in the city currently have the capacity for 4 465 learners and that the department plans to provide additional classrooms: eight each to Laerskool Laeveld and Nelspruit Primary and six to Laerskool Bergland. It is believed that this would increase the capacity to 5 233. However, this is pending planning and design, including getting building plans approved, and will not be ready in January when schools reopen. New schools are also in the planning phase, but are some years away from being opened. READ MORE: Mbombela set to get a new state primary and high school Construction of a school for the deaf and the blind is also set to start in the 2020/21 financial year in Barberton. Zwane confirmed that Maggiesdal on the R40 road has been identified for construction of both a primary and secondary school. For now, the local schools are full. A primary school principal noted that they were under a lot of pressure to help as many learners as possible, and wanted to help them, but simply could not. ALSO READ: Provincial school system failing Another principal of a local primary school said that each of the four major Mbombela primary schools are bending over backwards to accommodate more children. He has had to enlarge his classes, particularly the English language ones and will have 50 grade ones in their English class next year – as well as in the grade two, three and four classes. “Each of the public schools are chock and block,” he added. “The dilemma is that we don’t have enough space in classes and having too many children in the school can become a safety risk.” Moreover, they have to spend their own funds to acquire additional furniture, learning materials and teachers; a bill the parents have to foot. “I only had two department-funded posts for my 145 grade ones this year. We had to appoint an additional three teachers – not assistants, teachers.” Newly appointed head of Provincial Treasury, Gugu Mashiteng, pointed out to Lowvelder last week there was a shortage of schools in all fast-growing towns.  “We cannot build schools in all these fast-growing towns at once,” she said. In Mbombela, for now, “it is about where we have land, let us add facilities, let us add classrooms while we deal with other challenges. ALSO READ: Crisis over too few places for Lowveld grade ones “Remember the basic education sector has its own plans. The priority now is pit toilets, dealing with the matter of sanitation, dealing with the matter of facilities for people with disabilities, to name but a few.” she said. Government is also in the process of merging small and non-viable rural and farm schools and building boarding schools. “The focus cannot only be in towns. The focus must also be in rural areas without neglecting towns,” Mashiteng said. Joseph Ngala, spokesman for the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, confirmed that a service provider has been appointed to look into all requests from the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport, including two schools, offices for SANDF, offices for a TVET College and Community Residential Units. “A report is ready to be tabled at the next council meeting. Once it is approved, it will be ready for public knowledge,” he said.  MEC for finance, economic development and tourism, Pat Ngomane, said they need partnerships to expedite the building of schools. “It does not have to be big business. Even the small businesses can come on board. If a small business adds just a classroom, that helps.” Zwane said that the department will verify the waiting lists submitted by the schools. ” Should a parent experience a problem regarding the registration of a child to a school, they should request a written explanation from the principal or contact the nearest circuit office for assistance or call the departmental toll-free line on 080-020-3116 during office hours. ALSO SEE: Rezoning at Klipspringer Primary will not affect construction