 BARBERTON – Despite the recent rain, the water levels in the Barberton reservoirs remain very low. Over the weekend, residents experienced extensive water interruptions in extensions 7, 10, 11, 12 and Dindela. According to DA councillor Philip Minnaar, the water was shut off to certain areas to ensure others received some water too. These included Spearville, New Village, the hostel and extensions 6, 8 and 10b. “It is important that people understand that the restrictions are no longer implemented per area,” he said. City of Mbombela spokesman, Joseph Ngala. ALSO READ: Alleged housebreaker shot dead by Waterval Boven resident “The situation is no longer about water restrictions, but water availability. “We are actively monitoring the reservoirs to determine what the levels are, and we close off certain areas to fill up the supply to those which have no water.” Minnaar called on everyone who is able to donate five-litre water bottles to get in touch with him, as the need for drinking water has increased. ”We have less than 40 bottles left after the approximately 500 we have received thus far.” DA Cllr, Philip Minnaar. ALSO READ: GRIP moves into new offices Solutions to the deepening water crisis are being sought by the City of Mbombela Local Municipality and meetings involving all stakeholders are held every Thursday, alternating between Mbombela and Barberton. The City’s spokesman, Joseph Ngala, added that JoJo tanks are being erected throughout Barberton. “The recent rain has slowed the progress of erecting the stands, because concrete needs to be poured, which needs to harden. “Only about six stands have been erected so far out the 40. The other challenge is that the commitment by Barberton Mines has not been met yet. Lomati Dam. ALSO READ: The top 10 reasons insurers reject vehicle insurance claims revealed “I want to conduct first-hand inspections so that I can have a sense of what else needs to be done to assist Barberton with their water supply,” Ngala said. Minnaar and Ngala urged residents to continue using water sparingly, and the former pleaded for water donations, adding that potential donors could contact him on 079-492-2276 to arrange donations.