 MBOMBELA – The rainy season is upon us and with it, the dreaded hailstorms and vehicle accidents which cause motorists endless worry. Top of mind for motorists during this period, is whether their insurance covers them adequately for any eventualities. The best thing to do as a policyholder is to ensure that the contents of the policy is clear and that the insurance cover is comprehensive. Christelle Colman. ALSO READ: Hailstorm blows roofs off houses in Makoko, damages crops on farms Manager director of Elite Risk Acceptances, Christelle Colman believes that doing so reduces the risk of a claim being rejected considerably. “Living in a modern, always-on world, our day-to-day lives are busy, we forget things or put off doing personal admin until a ‘more convenient time’ without considering the potential impact of these decisions. “You never know when you’re going to be involved in an accident, so to avoid having your insurance claim rejected, it’s important to make sure that your policy information is up to date and that your car is in good working condition and compliant with the rules of the road,” she advised.  ALSO READ: Alleged housebreaker shot dead by Waterval Boven resident Last year’s Ombudsman for Short-Term Insurance annual report indicated that 74 per cent of claims considered for motor vehicle claim disputes were for accidental damage. The top reason for complaints was that the amount offered for settling claims and the secondary cause was rejections based on the insured person’s alleged non-disclosure or misrepresentation of underwriting details at the time the sales agreement was entered into.  ALSO READ: Clint and band rocked and rolled in White River 2. Premiums aren’t up to date 3. Unlicensed or unspecified drivers 4. Unroadworthy vehicles 5. Personal or business use 6. Vehicle not parked securely 7. Vehicle inspection was not carried out 8. Leaving keys in plain sight 9. Misrepresentation of underwriting details 10. Insurable interest She concluded by advising motorists to take advantage of the value-add services insurers provide.  ALSO READ: Almost Christmas Ensemble enchants the crowd “Most reputable insurers offer a number of value-added services, this typically includes a limited number of ‘drive me home’ rides per year, usually around six rides per year and generally need to be prearranged before a night out. “These services are there to help policyholders avoid drinking and driving while having a good time, and to reduce the number or drunk driving related accidents on our roads.” 