 MBOMBELA – According to the provincial Department of Safety, Security and Liaison spokesman, Moeti Mmusi, one of the things he has noticed during the holiday season is increased traffic volumes. “You must ensure that your vehicle is roadworthy by checking, for example, the tread of your tyres, the cooling system and if the indicators are working properly,” he said. He also stated that you should make sure all your paperwork is in order, especially when travelling long distances. “Ensure that your licence disc has not expired and that you driver’s licence is still valid. When travelling to Mozambique, ensure that your passport is in order and that you have informed your insurance company when crossing the border to verify coverage. Also do not drive while fatigued. Rest every two hours or so,” he advised ALSO READ: Overworked drivers have had enough The Automobile Association of South Africa (AA) stated that with the public schools closing in less than a month, “Statistics show more die in car crashes during this festive period than any other time, especially if you are going to be traveling long distances.” The AA Public Affairs issued a statement urging motorists to check their vehicles, including trailers and caravans, to ensure roadworthiness before embarking on long journeys. “If your vehicle needs a service, book it in as soon as possible, as spaces get filled closer to the holiday season and you may not get a slot. Check the tyres, spare wheels, nuts, bolts and axles. Don’t risk your holiday plans by having a towed vehicle break down due to bad planning or non-servicing,” the AA cautioned. Road death statistics indicate that around 92 per cent of all vehicle fatalities in the country are a result of human behaviour, rather than vehicle, road or environmental conditions, according to the AA. . The AA advised drivers to change their behaviour when they get behind the wheel. “Put your mobile phones away while driving, adhere to the speed limit, obey the rules of the road, and importantly, be courteous to other drivers and enjoy the journey,” it said. The following checklist is suggested for motorists: ALSO READ: Tips for staying safe on Lowveld roads this long weekend An excellent tip is to always have water, a first aid kit, and a mobile phone charger in your car for possible emergencies. Always remember that other motorists also have a right to drive on the road, so be a considerate driver.