 The Grappler concept boasts increased ground clearance, combining superb approach and departure angles for confident off-road driving capability, while custom front and rear brush guards were developed to ensure the Veloster Grappler is protected whenever the terrain turns unpredictable. Oversized all-terrain tires and rally-themed Method Racing wheels present a menacing demeanour and functional capability, while Borla cat-back exhaust components add a visceral audible resonance. For extra cargo capabilities, a roof-mounted Thule utility basket includes a high-output lighting system from Baja Designs. A full host of roof-mounted utility lights provide excellent illumination for night driving on rough terrain. From high-speed desert off-roading high beams to base camp work lights, the Veloster Grappler is ready for the unexpected from any adventure. ALSO READ: Hyundai launches new Atos The utility basket serves as a base mount for the removable solar panel from Goal Zero, powering an all-electric portable power station mounted inside the cabin for remote journeys. A custom vinyl exterior body wrap features a ghosted Hyundai-themed livery. Finally, a Seibon carbon-fibre hood vents excess engine bay heat when things heat up out on the road. Inside the cabin, the functional rugged theme continues. An integrated roll bar provides occupant protection and provides mounting for a full-size spare wheel and tire. Further outfitting the interior are traction mats, an oversized utility shovel, a Goal Zero portable power station, roadside assistance kit, first aid kit, Napier outdoor dome tent, Scosche Mounts, Goal Zero crush lights and premium Recaro seats finished in a vintage hound’s tooth check pattern. Exterior lighting is modulated through a custom-designed switch panel. Hyundai genuine accessories round out the functionality of the vehicle, adding sport pedals, a sport shifter, all-weather mats, ambient footwell lighting and cargo blocks. ALSO READ: Alleged sex offender to reappear in court after rape