 MBOMBELA – Bossies Community Justice’s (BCJ) committee members have been described as energetic, focused and task-driven individuals who enjoy contributing towards a worthy cause. BCJ is excited to welcome two new committee members this month. They are Pieter Viljoen, who will assist with marketing, and Isabet Erwee, who will be assist as a criminal law expert. Both have amazing skill sets that will benefit not only BCJ, but the broader Lowveld community. Viljoen boasts a number of accolades in the business and marketing sector and his experience will raise awareness within the community of the impact BCJ has in fighting crime in the Lowveld. He has been with the Nkomazi Group of Companies as the head of sales and marketing after a 15-year stint with Imperial. Pieter Viljoen. ALSO READ: Contract dispute leads to dropped cellphone signal His tenure has cemented his reputation as a relationship builder, whose passion it is to reach out to communities and help with sponsorships and bursaries for the needy. “Keeping our community safe is a priority and BCJ has been on the front line in combating crime. Being part of the time means I can utilise my skills to create better awareness. “Serving as a role model and mentoring young people, especially in rural communities, is the strongest deterrent to crime, because it provides the youth with the ability to make better life choices,” he said. Isabet Erwee. ALSO READ: Endangered Aloe simii in jeopardy due to planned development Albert Gryvenstein, BCJ operations manager, has become a familiar face on the Lowveld crime-fighting scene and has, over the years, proven himself to be an asset to the region. He values a crime-free community through his dedication and commitment to working with local law enforcement agencies, by bringing criminals to book and
securing numerous arrests in crimes which have made news headlines over the years. ALSO READ: Moroccan cyclist makes a pit-stop in Mbombela This festive season, Gryvenstein dispenses handy hints to Lowvelders who may be going on holiday and expect their homes and possessions to be intact on their return. “I would like to wish everyone a blessed Christmas, a relaxing holiday and safe travels during this period,”
he concluded. Safety tips
1. Install a security system in your home and ensure that it is activated. This should be displayed prominently on a
sign and cameras should be visible, if installed. Preventing crime is better than becoming a victim. 2. Make sure that the alarm system is in working order before leaving for your vacation. 3. Check that all doors are locked and windows are closed. It seems simple, but numerous homes are broken into
because they have not been properly locked. 4. Ensure adequate lighting around the house. A well-lit house is a burglar’s worst enemy. Where possible, ask       someone to switch on the lights inside the home regularly. This creates the impression that there are people at home. 5. Keep valuables out of sight. 6. Draw the curtains to prevent would-be intruders from peeping. 7. Maintain the garden by asking a neighbour to cut the grass while you are away. Long grass and an untidy garden
are a dead giveaway that no one is home. 8. Do not announce your plans to employees or on social media.