 BARBERTON – The Barberton visible policing commander acknowledged that the SAPS had failed to conduct regular patrols and promised to address this shortcoming. After a weekend of unrest sparked by fighting among feuding Burgerville residents, concerned citizens called a meeting on Tuesday which was attended by the Barberton visible policing commander, Col Sipho Manana and Capt Jackson Ngomane, Capt Sizwe Nkosi, Capt Faizel Essack and Capt Jackson Mongezi. It soon became apparent that the turnout would be poor. Only about a quarter of the township residents attended, with many community members stating they had not been informed about the meeting. Col Sipho Manana, Mandla Dlamini, Capt Sizwe Nkosi and Capt Jackson Mongezi. ALSO READ: Concerted efforts by all stakeholders to address water crisis Manana asked the residents to postpone the gathering, but his request was met with resistance from those in attendance, who felt that there were a number of serious concerns that needed to be addressed. A resident at the meeting said they feared for their lives and requested that police conduct regular patrols in Burgerville. “The needs of this community are not being addressed. This is the first time we have been introduced to the Ward 42 committee member, Lungile Mnisi, and the councillor, Christopher Mongezi, is also not present,” said Avery Palmer, a longtime resident. Avery Palmer. ALSO READ: Man on the run after allegedly shooting his girlfriend and mother-in-law in Sheba Siding shooting The next meeting, which will happen next Tuesday at 18:00, will be announced on Monday with loudhailers,” Manana said. “Until then, the Barberton police will be conducting patrols because we have taken note of the serious manner in which the community views this matter.” Priest Bruno Jaftha. ALSO READ: Paraglider recovering after severely burning in Barberton A resolution was reached that Mongezi be informed about next week’s meeting and that an agenda would be set with the community’s grievances in order to promote constructive discussions.