 In April 2018 Autodealer Lowveld carried the story of one of the most recognised Unimog specialists in South Africa, Carel Roux. That article has also been published in the international Unimog club magazine, and read by nearly 10 000 people across the world. At that time, Carel’s son, Danie had just started a bolt and nut restoration on a 1988 Unimog Doka double cab. The completed project is raising many eyebrows and generating inquiries from all over the world. So this story is about a Doka like no other. “I grew up working on Unimogs alongside my dad from when I was little. And owning a double cab has been a dream of mine since beyond time. We bought this unit – one of three that we bought at the time – at an auction in Heidelberg. The double cab derivatives were and still are very popular as firefighting and emergency vehicles. I specifically wanted a D/C as it is much more family-friendly.” Danie Roux. Important to note dear reader, that every single part, suspension or engine, bolt, nut and rubber on this Unimog, is Mercedes OEM spec and supplied by Mercedes. Danie and Carel do not do shortcuts – nope, zero, zilch – it is OEM spec or nothing. “This did increase the cost of the project but we are 100 percent comfortable with this.” Okay so, would you sell this Unimog? “Nope! Not even for a million rand? Nope – she is worth much more than that,” said Danie. ALSO READ: Unimog Freunde Club of South Africa invites you to join this incredibly special family The only elements that are not standard are the radio, leather seats and air conditioner. The latter is still to be fitted. Electronics and instrumentation has been upgraded – still OEM spec though. And, except for the spray painting (color is RAL 2000 Yellow Orange), Danie did everything himself. “It took two years to complete the project. It required tremendous patience – fitting stuff only to take it all apart and start again – being confronted with threats of divorce and much much more. And although it was all worthwhile, I am not convinced that I will want to do it again, “said Danie. Of course now that is done, its brownie points all round! What makes this Doka so special then? The cabin size is standard but it was lifted with 70mm. The Doka came standard with a Mercedes Benz naturally aspirated engine but Danie wanted to double the power output and decided to fit an OM366 turbocharger. Everybody said it will prove impossible as space in the engine bay, is extremely limited and tight.  He redesigned the manifold – replaced the Unimogs water expansion tank and fitted it on the opposite side of the engine. And well, long and the short – it worked! The engine and turbo performance is unequaled and seamless and this Unimog happily idles up the Sabie hills in forth gear without as much as a snort. Feed the accelerator and the response is immediate. The engine is Euro 2 compliant and develops 150kW and 650Nm compared to the 92kw and 348Nm of the standard 352 derivative. And with four forward gears – four low and four high gears – 4×4 pneumatic – compression driven front and rear diff locks, this Unimog may well prove unstoppable. In fact, it should be considered a wolf in sheep’ clothing. The visual difference between this and the standard vehicle, well, will only be spotted by the true Unimog connoisseur and expert. South Africa is truly blessed because we have two of the latter, right here in Sabie. So if you see this Unimog, give it right of way, hoot and wave. This is the icon of icons, so show some respect! ALSO READ: Mercedes delivers on its promise with specialised Unimog U529