 Dullstroom Accommodation recently announced that Vernon Kruger (51) will attempt to break his own world record for “longest duration pole sitting in a barrel”. In 1997, then 29-year-old Kruger spent 67 days in a 500-litre wine barrel mounted onto a pole in the little town of Dullstroom, breaking the Guinness World Record. It has remained unbeaten despite various worldwide attempts. Kruger, now 51, who remains both mentally and physically fit, has accepted a recent invitation by the Guinness Book of World Records to break his own record. The pole is 25 metres high (eight floors) and the wine barrel is 1 100 millimetres high, 725 millimetres wide at the top, 870 millimetres wide in the centre, and 500 litres in volume.  Kruger will remain on top of the pole day and night and will only be allowed to come down once the event is over. He ascended the pole on November 14, 2019. This ambitious attempt is currently taking place in Dullstroom. “South Africa needs feel-good stories,” he said. “Many people ask me: ‘Why?’ This achievement will create a new cultural milestone for Dullstroom, and hopefully ignite excitement for the people of South Africa. I am also challenging my own existing record.” Also read: Locals inspired to help GRIP Fiona Jones from Dullstroom Accommodation said, “The event has created unity and hope for locals. Dullstroom is the highest village in South Africa, at 2 100 metres above sea level. This means Vernon literally ascends to the highest seat in the country for at least 67 days. We hope that people will see the humour in this, and that this will boost tourism in our little town.”  World record remains unbeaten: In 2003, US Illusionist David Blaine sought recognition from the Guinness Book of World Records for his attempt to live in a clear 2x2x1 metre box while dangling over the river Thames in London. But Guinness’s keeper of records Stewart Newport acknowledged that Kruger’s record trumps that of  Blaine. The event created massive headlines in 1997 all over the world. American radio and television personality Howard Stern even phoned Kruger while he was in the barrel – connected with a Telkom landline at the time – to encourage and congratulate him. Lees die Afrikaanse weergawe hier: Wêreldrekord in wording  