 With the help of generous cat lovers, Natureza’s Cat Rescue has a new lease on life. Earlier this year the cat sanctuary faced the possibility of closing their doors due to severe financial constraints. Luckily, that is no longer the case. The place was founded by Susan van Zyl seven years ago and is a non-profit organisation. She houses about 140 cats. ALSO READ: An early Christmas celebration for the elderly According to Ina Smith, one of the three directors, they were ready to close their doors and do the unthinkable three months ago.    “All rescue organisations are jam-packed, with not a single space left. This is because of people not sterilising and not being responsible pet owners. Our houses are full and the adoptions non-existent. With the help of our online Facebook community, aggressive marketing and project management strategy, we are slowly but surely turning the unfortunate situation around,” she said. Smith said in the past months they have managed to accomplish various things. “Each cat is now sponsored at R100 per month. The income of R14 000 per month helps to cover the basics. We have a lucky draw for a sponsor each month. We have enough dry pellets for the next three months through an extremely generous donation from Iams. We managed to get the most critical cases to the vet, around 10 kitties. “We have now embarked on a ‘Healthy Paws & Whiskers Project’, where each and every kitty will be checked by a vet, dewormed and their teeth cleaned. A CIPC has been successfully registered and we have appointed three directors, who are Van Zyl, Rona Wearne and Smith. ALSO READ: Care Buddies visit at Laeveldrus brings joy “We have an excellent team of five cat-crazy ladies working very hard behind the scenes. Van Zyl, with support from her family, takes care of the kitties and drives them to the vet when needed,” she explained. Smith said, “According to our accountant, Natureza’s now has PBO-status, which means donors can claim back tax when donating to the sanctuary. We are incredibly thankful for our accountant, Annemarie from Platinum Accounting Solutions. She is making sure Natureza’s is submitting the financial statements and is fully SARS-compliant,” she said. As a way to sustain the place, they are currently doing various fundraising activities. Their monthly expenses are around R 24 000. “We are currently running a kitty gym competition, which will close on December 20. We plan to host two open days during December 20 and 28. We would like to invite sponsors and visitors to Sabie to join us on the day,” she said.
Natureza does not take in new cats, because they are full to capacity.