 The Ariya Concept features a spacious, premium cabin with high-tech features and a body that conveys the pure, clean nature of electric cars. It embodies the Nissan Intelligent Mobility vision of personal transportation – one where electrification and vehicle intelligence will offer seamless and adaptive travel experiences free of accidents or harmful emissions. “With this vehicle and the IMk concept, we wanted to ensure that the soul of every Nissan car possesses a distinctive Japanese DNA conveyed in a simple yet powerfully modern way, something we call timeless Japanese futurism.” The exterior strikes a balance between dynamic beauty and tech sharpness, with proportions that show what’s possible with Nissan’s 100% electric vehicle platform. The surprisingly short overhangs, large cabin, large wheels and tailored two-tone paint scheme provide an elegant appearance that balances sport and luxury.  The minimalist dashboard is uncluttered by the buttons and switches found in conventional vehicles. The only physical controls are the start button, a single knob to operate the 12,3-inch display monitor, and the climate controls, which are artfully ingrained into the instrument panel’s genuine-wood lower section. Throughout the cabin, interior materials were carefully selected to give an impression of solidness, technology and utility. ALSO READ: Nissan seeks clean slate with CEO exit, but challenges remain The Ariya Concept features the latest version of Nissan’s award-winning driver assistance system, ProPILOT 2,0, for a more confident and comfortable drive. The system combines navigated highway driving with hands-off single-lane driving capabilities.  Built with a high-performance, 100% electric drive system, the Nissan Ariya Concept delivers instant torque to the wheels from a dual front/rear motor drive configuration. This layout delivers balanced, predictable power to all four wheels, equal or better than many premium sports cars. The Ariya Concept promises excellent cornering performance and traction on slippery surfaces such as snow and loose dirt, without drivers needing to change their driving style, steering input or even pedal position. Firmware Over The Air (FOTA) technology provides constant, hassle-free updates for the navigation system, graphic user interface and driving characteristics to ensure the car is running effectively and has the latest versions and features, keeping the driver’s experience fresh and enjoyable. When parked at the office or home, the Ariya Concept supports Nissan Energy technology.  The technology makes it possible to connect with energy systems to charge the EV battery, power homes and businesses, and even selling energy back to the power grid. Nissan Energy helps drivers fully harness the Ariya Concept’s capabilities by expanding its use from just driving to include every aspect of life. ALSO READ: A fitting reward for eV Challenge winners