Rounding off the seven-city travelling tour of South Africa’s biggest and boldest wine show, the TOPS at SPAR Wine Show is coming to Nelspruit from 28 to 30 November. Wine lovers can look forward to over 40 exhibitors, 17 who are new to this year’s show and of the 28 wine farms, three fall into the boutique category. The DTI which, as a catalyst for transformation and change and a promoter of cultural diversity in the wine industry, will be bringing three new farms to the Nelspruit show – Libby’s Pride, Koni Wines and M’Hudi Wines. Look out for the SPAR Sommeliers Olive Brook selection, which will include tastings of their two new ranges, Everyday and Terroir Selection.  1. Let us know the name of one of the three new farms that is coming to the Nelspruit TOPS at SPAR Wine Show
2. Leave your answer  with your name/surname and contact number on our Facebook page here.
T’s and C’s apply. No under 18’s will be allowed to enter the competition.   Andrew Douglas, Owner and Producer of The Wine Show, says this is the show’s fifth appearance in Nelspruit, which has always been warm and welcoming of ‘WINEderland’. “This year’s show in The Venue at Emnotweni Casino will deliver more than ever before – with an amazing line-up of well-known and as-yet-undiscovered gems from the world-renowned Cape winelands for tasting and buying, entertainment at every turn and interactive edutainment in our popular wine theatre, not to mention shopping and networking opportunities with wine fundis.” “The Wine Show is always fun, and it offers something for every wine-lover from novice to aficionado; it’s the place to stock up on old favourites and make new discoveries, which can be shipped free of charge with our complimentary ‘Sip ‘n Ship’ service,” he adds.   Tickets are priced at R185 for a General Admission ticket, which includes a tasting glass, show guide, access to wine theatres and unlimited tastings. A special Weekend Pass ticket, priced at R280, has been created for the ultimate wine-lover to spend both Friday and Saturday exploring the exceptional wines and edutainment experiences on offer at the show. Show times are 17h00 to 21h00 on Thursday and Friday, and 15h00 to 21h00 on Saturday. The TOPS at SPAR Wine Show’s #DrinkSmart programme promotes responsible alcohol consumption and safe driving practices at the event, and encourages visitors to have a designated driver or make use of alternative means of transport. Block off the dates now and book your tickets here.  See more info on www.wineshow.co.za.