 MBOMBELA – A few areas in the Lowveld were hard hit by yesterday’s hailstorm which swept through Mbombela and the surrounding areas, leaving a trail of devastation. Mbombela municipality spokesman, Joseph Ngala, posted on Facebook in the aftermath of the storm: “A trail of devastation left behind by the storm in Makoko outside White River this afternoon. “The preliminary assessment indicates that more than 40 houses have either had roofs blown away or completely destroyed to the ground”. A number of houses had their roofs blown off. ALSO READ: KNP tourist dies in Johannesburg hospital He added that two schools were also damaged, which affected pupils writing exams. He called on community members to assist victims by providing shelter and foodstuff as the storm continued to rage throughout the night. Local farmers also suffered damages with roofs blown off farm structures, citrus farmer Ludwick de Kock said, “The damage was not that severe, but the crop will most certainly be affected and this will only be noticeable within a few months’ time. The damage to crops will only be ascertained within a few months. ALSO READ: Protesting Elandshoek residents shut down N4 for almost five hours “Any fruit with bruises will have to be graded as “juice”, which means that the price will be five to ten per cent less. “One or two roofs on houses were blown off and we arrived home to find hailstones the size of tennis balls.” Cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) spokesman, George Mthethwa said, “About 40 houses have been affected according to a preliminary report. Disaster management teams are assessing the extent of the damage inflicted in Makoko. ALSO READ: Massive drug bust after a high-speed chase on the N4 “Our disaster management teams are making assessments to determine the extent of the damage at Makoko”. He added that parts of KaNyamazane were hit but no damage was reported. Barberton Nature Reserve experienced a short hailstorm. Dark clouds gathering before the storm. ALSO READ: Protesting Elandshoek residents shut down N4 for almost five hours “Two local schools were also affected at Makoko, with no major damage. Once a complete assessment has been undertaken, we will make a conclusive indication about the nature of the support to be given.” The MEC for Cogta, Mandla Msibi appealed to communities to be on high alert during the rainy season from November until January. 