 Adorned in white, the CANSA debutantes celebrated the difference they have made in the fight against cancer throughout the year on Friday night. The annual CANSA Debutante Ball took place at Emnotweni, in celebration of the debutantes’ accomplishments. The CANSA debutante project was initiated in 1991 to encourage the youth to do community service and to create cancer awareness among themselves. They represent this prestigious organisation within their schools and social groups. Each year they initiate their own projects to raise funds. This year 52 participants registered and raised a total of R280 415 for the non-profit organisation. ALSO WATCH: A moment of silence for Sr Rona Labuschagne at the CANSA Shades of Pink Walk For 2019, the merit debutante group from Uplands was named the overall winners for the Lowveld and Mpumalanga region, as they raised a total of R109 947. The three friends, Lauren Woodrow, Kiara Wales and Beulah Alberts, decided to form a group and did all their fundraising projects and awareness campaigns together. The first runner-up was Sameera Shaik from Hoërskool Bergvlam with the second runner-up being Lanika Leuvennink from Hoërskool Nelspruit. Monique van der Westhuizen, CANSA’s community mobiliser in the Lowveld, said the funds will add valuable assistance to their 11 care homes, 135 support groups and 1 738 trained care and support volunteers. ALSO READ: Myths vs facts on breast cancer “This will also help us to continue leading the fight against cancer in South Africa by enabling research, educating the public, and it brings us closer to the challenge of a Lauren Woodrow, Kiara Wales and Beulah Alberts. Riaan Loubser and Monique van der Westhuizen. cancer-free society within this century. “CANSA is committed to connecting people facing cancer with the information, day-to-day help, and the emotional support they need – in the communities where they live – to help people through every step of their journey and to promote a better quality