 MBOMBELA – A storm swept through the city over the weekend, leaving a trail of chaos and destruction in its wake.
According to cooperative governance and traditional affairs spokesman, George Mthethwa, the municipal areas of
Mbombela, Bushbuckridge and Komatipoort were affected by the storm. “Our preliminary assessments indicate that a number of trees were uprooted and fell over into the roads. All three municipalities are in the process of clearing the roads, because of the impact on traffic flow,” he said. The storm also resulted in power outages and traffic lights not working. In Mbombela, the traffic lights on the corner of Madiba Drive and Andrew Street were affected as a result of the power outage. Emmanuel Mandlazi. ALSO READ: Register for your 2019 matric results with Caxton Media Locals reported seeing uprooted trees on Andrew and Weir streets, as well as at the intersection of Government Boulevard and Madiba Drive. A Mbombela resident, Megan Earnshaw, reported that a branch from a tree struck by lightning had put out the street light outside her home in Sonheuwel. There were reports that a jacaranda tree had also been uprooted and was causing an obstruction in the road. Mthethwa said no severe damage to homes was reported, but that disaster management units would visit the affected
areas to conduct further assessments.  ALSO READ: Verdict on opposed bail application for former master of High Court imminent “We will be providing short-term relief in the form of food parcels and temporary materials, such as tarpaulins and short-term building structures, in cases where the storm may have completely demolished homes,”
he said. The water supply in Bushbuckridge was cut as a result of a power outage, but was restored as soon as electricity came back on. “All municipalities have disaster management units that are assisting with preliminary reports in the affected areas
and we should have a complete report later today.”  ALSO READ: Weak growth worries treasury Meanwhile, the Sable Hide Sleepover Camp in the Kruger National Park (KNP) was evacuated on Saturday morning due to flooding following the heavy rain on Friday night, according to SA National Parks spokesman, Ike Phaahla. The flooding affected the access roads to the park and visitors were urged to exercise caution and to avoid roads near
low-lying bridges. “The KNP has received heavy rain in the northern part. Sable Hide was flooded and Letaba low-water bridge is also under water. Shimuwini and Mopani Rest Camps are not accessible via the low-water bridge.” According to water utility Silulumanzi, the thunderstorm damaged the 600-millimetre water pump line that supplies all areas north of Eziweni, disrupting the water supply.  ALSO READ: GALLERY: The Best in Mbombela 2019

“Eziweni, Zwelisha, Clau-Clau, Gutshwa, KaBokweni and Tekatakho will experience a disruption in their water supply. Please use the available water sparingly,” its statement read. Residents in areas that are experiencing disruptions in water supply are asked to call 0861-74-5858 to report them.