EMIS, in collaboration with Nelspruit Post, has decided to make a small difference this festive season in the lives of children residing with Child Welfare, CMR, Huis Betlehem in Mbombela and White River and also Katoen informal settlement. The EMIS elves drive will collect ‘love boxes’ and fill them with small presents for children in need. “There are so many people in our area that will not have the privilege to form part of this happy and joyful time, especially children in orphanages, foster care and informal settlements”, said Jaap Vorster, co-owner of the family business Ekono Mining and Industrial Supplies (EMIS). Jaap and his team of EMIS elves are determined to fill approximately 500 of these boxes and then to deliver them on December 14. They will also host a Christmas party for 100 children in Mbombela after they have dropped off all the love boxes.  “We need the help of the community and local businesses to pull this off,” explained Vorster. “You can help by either making a financial contribution, or, if you prefer, by picking up an empty love box  from our our offices in Rocky Drift or at Lowveld Media and then filling these with gifts. Please limit the contents to the value of approximately R150 per box. We also ask that you clearly mark if it is for a boy or girl and which age group.” You can deliver the boxes to EMIS, Rocky Drift at Bundu Big Time Complex on the corner of  Janson and Wilkens roads, or to the Lowveld Media offices at 12 Stinkhout Crescent, Mbombela.  EMIS has also partnered with PEP Stores and Crazy Stores  which will all collect financial contributions from the public. The money collected will be allocated to buy the boxes and fill them with gifts. PEP Stores
Use the reference number: 7219 emis.
Banking details:
ABSA Bank, PEP Tak Deposito, Account nr: 10-0420-0523, branch code: 630110 Crazy Stores Use the reference number: White River 2 MR
Banking details:
ABSA Bank, THE CRAZY STORE, Account nr: 40-5086-6989, branch code: 630809  We want to thank the following companies who have already sponsored either boxes or a financial contribution.
They are Nelspruit Iron & Steel, Crossmoor Timbers, Tweespruit, Beziway Construction, Nelspruit Lodge, Top Cars, Frey Atttorneys and Mobile Hydraulics. We challenge local businesses to either match them (10 boxes per company) or cash donation of R500 or raise them with your own contribution to this campaign.  EMIS started out from humble beginnings, and has grown in 2019 to become one of they key mining and industrial suppliers in the Lowveld. It specialises in industrial and LP gasses, welding consumables, gas cutting and welding equipment, welding equipment repairs, workshop tools, power tools, lifting equipment, personal protective equipment (PPE), specialised welding electrodes and specialised welding wires.  The business was started with the goal to enable end users an alternative to purchasing welding and workshop requirements delivered to their doorstep.     