 LOW’S CREEK – They have vowed not to leave until a solution is found to reopen Lily and Barbrook mines. They also want the remains of Pretty Nkambule, Yvonne Mnisi and Solomon Nyarenda to be retrieved. They have been trapped underground since the Lily Mine disaster struck in February 2016. Read More: Despair marks the lives of former mineworkers It led to both mines ceasing operations and entering into business rescue. On June 5, ex-employees and community members risked their lives and went underground to locate the container with the bodies of the three. They say they have lost all hope of government assisting them. Harry Mazibuko, a representative of the former employees, said they have temporarily suspended the search for the container until the outcome of the court judgement. Harry Mazibuko, representative for the ex-employees. On Tuesday Siyakhula Sonke Corporation (SSC) will bring an application to the Mpumalanga Division of the High Court to force Vantage Goldfields South Africa (VGSA) to transfer its shares in the mines to SSC as set out in a sale of share agreement. This was cancelled by VGSA, which claimed SSC did not have the funds. Judgement is expected the same day. Our findings underground were that the upper level, shaft three and two, has a huge rock that stands as an obstacle. It is between these two shafts where the container is assumed to be stuck. Between shaft four and five there is a lot of water. And in shaft five it is stable, which indicates that the shaft did not pass there,” said Mazibuko. Because it is dark, full of water underground and there are huge rocks on the path they have to use, they are seeking donations of equipment. He said they will need a water pump, generator and a compressor for ventilation, among other machines, to be able to continue the search for the container. Among those who have been camping near the mine is Duduzile Nyirenda, mother of Solomon. When Lowvelder visited the place on Wednesday she was found doing handwork. Duduzile Nyirenda, mother of Solomon. I do not believe that my son is dead yet. If I believed so, I would have gone to the Department of Home Affairs and asked for a death certificate to be issued. I have hoped that one day when I look up, I will see my son coming with those others from underground,” said Nyirenda. At the tent the ex-employees and community members cook, bathe and sleep, despite it being winter. Others sleep in open land, warming themselves with fire throughout the night. The food they cook is donated by local businesses, individuals and other stakeholders. Preparing supper at the camp. Every day at around 17:00, they gather together for sermons of spiritual strength delivered by various local pastors.