 MBOMBELA – Cancer is often spoken about in hushed tones, and patients affected by this life-threatening disease have to undergo a battery of tests to determine which form of the disease is attacking them. This, of course, comes with serious financial implications for patients. Moving Mountains director, Izelle Pretorius founded the non-profit organisation after her own experience with the disease. She knows first-hand the realities of cancer treatment, and Moving Mountains aims to address this for patients. Jacques and Patricia Lotterie with Izelle Pretorius. ALSO READ: KNP uitvoerende bestuurder terug in die tuig “There is limited support available to cancer patients who do not have adequate funds for treatment, as most organisations only provide additional support to patients already receiving treatment,” Pretorius explained. “This prevents many patients from receiving or completing treatment, which in itself has life-threatening consequences.” Over the course of its establishment, Moving Mountains has assisted a number of patients by providing financial support to eligible patients in terms of related tests like CT or MRI scans. They also provide financial support to cover the medical aid’s shortfall as well as transportation or accommodation costs. Because so little is known about cancer, Moving Mountains strives to educate the general public about it; how to prevent the disease and maintain a healthy lifestyle in order to combat it.

A scan showing the growth on Sarah Smit’s brain. ALSO READ: WATCH: SANParks says ‘all above board’ regarding impala video

Patricia Lotterie (24) is a beneficiary of the organisation which has contributed to her outstanding medical bills, transport costs and supplements not covered by her medical aid. The mother of two was diagnosed with cervical cancer a year ago and the organisation has been instrumental in easing the financial burden she incurred during this time. “At a time when I was at my lowest and battling to cover costs like transportation and certain supplements, they helped tremendously by being there to help me cope financially,” she said. Sarah Smit (54) was also assisted by Moving Mountains, which covered the cost of an MRI brain scan. “Moving Mountains has helped enormously by alleviating some of the financial burdens of the medical treatments, and they have assisted with transport costs and are covering the expensive medication which I have to take daily,” she said. Sarah Smit recovering in hospital “Their selfless work for cancer patients is unbelievable and I urge everyone to stand together and support Moving Mountains. Every person deserves a second chance,” Smit concluded.
The battle against cancer rages on and Moving Mountains continues their fund-raising efforts to assist patients. They will host a Ladies’ Night for Women’s Day on August 8. ALSO READ: Mine closure leaves former workers on the bread line The event, titled, “At Your Cervix”, includes a luxury bus ride from Mbombela to KMI Airport with gynaecologists on board and entertainment provided by the renowned Pieter Koen. Two buses have been sold out and a further two are still available. Pretorius said, “The remaining two buses are specifically to raise funds for Kuen Harrison (3), Charlene Els (7) and Sean Adlem (12).” Kuen has a stage 3 neuroblastoma while Charlene and Sean suffer from cerebral palsy and cancer. Tickets cost R200 per person and Pretorius can be contacted on 082-410-7779 for further information.