 BARBERTON – Exciting times lie ahead for tourism in town, according to stakeholders of Barberton Community Tourism (BCT).
Its AGM took place at the rugby club last Thursday. The meeting was hosted by BCT chairman, Nathi Masamo, BCT marketing manager, Astrid Christensen and Kruger Lowveld chief operating officer, Linda Grimbeek. They were unanimous that Barberton holds tremendous historical and geological significance, but that it has experienced a decline in tourist numbers over the years. Andréa Fourie and Werner Vos. ALSO READ: Camps outside closed mines contains waiting hopefuls However, while not much is seemingly happening at the moment, a number of projects are in the planning stages behind
the scenes. Grimbeek opined that all the partners needed to band together to create opportunities for tourism in Barberton. Astrid Christensen, Barberton Community Tourism marketing manager. ALSO READ: Gliders to take to the sky from Sunday “When I think of tourism, I don’t think of numbers. I think of what it is we have to offer,” she said.
“Barberton has mountains, museums, underground tours and the geo-trail. Nothing has been added since the Makhonjwa Mountains were declared a heritage site last year.” She added that the state of tourism in town held the most potential in the Lowveld because of the scenery and the World Heritage Site designation. She contended that more needed to be done in terms of creating a host of activities for visitors to participate in. Fumeka Chirwu and Julius Matsebula. ALSO READ: NOSA trains your employees safe “Barberton is far off the beaten track, so we have to create a virtual ‘shopping centre’ of activities to draw people here. We have the mountains and a connection with the ancient siSwati culture and need to make it being a faraway destination our advantage.” She said there are only two roads into Barberton, emphasising that this created the need to capitalise on people of all ages visiting through regular brainstorming sessions. Norman Hartman, who represented Barberton Mines at the AGM, weighed in on the debate. “Mining is a finite resource and we need to look at what happens when this resource runs out,” he added. Nathi Masano, BCT chairman. Hartman laid out a number of exciting plans which are in the planning stages, which he said would provide a considerable boost to the tourism industry in Barberton. Grimbeek concluded, “In the next 10 years we need to lift the region into a top destination in the world. We have identified seven nodes of development. All that is left now, is to get 24 iconic attractions which will see people flocking here.”
These will be discussed at the next meeting. Daphne van Rensburg, Lionel Meyer and Terry Berrington from Terry’s Tours. The AGM concluded with the election of a volunteer working committee comprised of Duduzile Makhubela, Senzo Mamiza, Themba Nkosi, Lifa Nkosi, Nick Harrod, Wynand Engelbrecht and Lionel Meyer.