 MBOMBELA – A pupil from Lowveld High School was recently among the learners chosen to present the 2019 South African Children’s Manifesto to political parties, state institutions and the government. New head to continue LHS legacy The children’s manifesto, as the voice of South African children, serves as a channel of children’s priorities to be embedded into the strategies of organs of the state for the 2019 to 2024 strategic framework. Sbonelesihle Nkabinde, a 17-year-old grade 11 learner, is already the president of the Girl’s and Boy’s Education Movement, and an ambassador for many organisations that deal with issues children face. The theme for the manifesto is “Investing in South African Children”. From an exclusive group of about 50 brilliant leaders across the country, only six were chosen to represent the group in the event that took place at the Nelson Mandela Children’s Hospital. “The experience taught me a lot,” she said. “I needed to do right by all South African children and fight for their fundamental rights through voicing the critical and dangerous situations that children find themselves in every day,” she said.
“It was humbling, because it showed that there is a lot to learn and to be appreciative of in your life. “My views are that each child has specific needs for their well-being, speaking in terms of their own personal environment and circumstances, but what is tricky is how to cater for each child and prioritise their protection, survival, participation and development. “Each child needs to feel that they are secure and that they have support in order for them to grow – not only physically but mentally. Each child deserves the opportunity to get a quality education and to better themselves and live a life with no poverty.” She added that many youngsters are faced with the harsh brutalities of life with no one to shield and guide them.
“I plan to use my school as a way to become a peer influencer and educator, so that children do not end up being pulled into the darkness while we watch and do nothing. “It is our duty to defend our peers and pick them up when they’re down. My biggest inspiration is each hero in their own right; be it an educator, a grown-up in my community or a learner doing great things. “My biggest support system has to be my loved ones, school, mentors and close friends,” she concluded.