 Kabokweni – Three men aged between 35 and 47 and a woman appeared in the KaBokweni Magistrate’s Court on Monday, facing two counts of murder and two of arson.
They were arrested over the weekend for their alleged involvement in the murder of a pastor and his nephew, aged 35 and 25, as well as the torching of their houses at Mganduzweni, near White River, late in April. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: CIT heist at Lowveld Mall in Hazyview The case was remanded for today at the Masoyi Periodical Court. Two of the four accused provisionally had charges withdrawn against them. Tobias Simelane (44) and Getrude Ndubane (47) were remanded in custody pending formal bail application. The pastor and his nephew were burned to death by members of the community who falsely accused them of murdering two children. The bodies of siblings Silindile (6) and Nontokozo (5) were found in a ditch on the morning of April 24 at Mganduzweni Trust in Masoyi. Police spokesman, Col Mtsholi Bhembe said no body parts were found missing from the girls, but confirmed that the younger one had allegedly been raped. A sangoma was reportedly consulted by members of the community, who falsely accused the pastor and his nephew for the crime. They burned the two men to death and torched their houses. Last week police arrested Tshepiso Mokoena (22), who briefly appeared in the KaBokweni Magistrate’s Court for the girls’ murders. He was remanded in custody and set to appear again in court on June 5. Mokoena was also allegedly found to be responsible for the murder of 20-year-old Khensani Sambo, who was reported as missing on March 26 at Shabalala Trust near Hazyview. ALSO READ: Cables finally being removed A police investigation led them to the suspect, who pointed out the place where Sambo’s body had been dumped. It was in an advanced stage of decomposition. On the same day, after the police had left, some community members burned the suspect’s house. A case of arson is being investigated. Mokoena, who is reportedly related to the young girls, claimed that on the day, he had taken the two victims and handed them over to some other people. Police are investigating the claims.
Provincial Police Commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma condemned acts of vigilantism, saying they have the potential of having innocent people falling victim to the ire of the community.