 HAZYVIEW – Visitors from abroad to the Lowveld have had to contend with hijackings and robberies over the past few weeks. This after a spate of attacks on tourists in the Graskop and Sabie areas. He confirmed that there were five instances in which armed robbers hijacked or tried hijacking self-drive tourists in the areas mentioned above. Four of the incidents in the last week took place in the Sabie/Graskop area and the fifth one occurred near White River. ALSO READ:Police still working to give family closure after man’s untimely death The famed Graskop Gorge Lift. ALSO READ: These attacks were perpetrated within one week.
According to Vorster, the robbers stop cars in remote areas, sometimes hijacking, other times robbing and taking all valuables, cash and cards. “We believe that at least four out of the five incidents were perpetrated by the same two individuals, however, it is the responsibility of the South African Police Service to investigate and provide comment. “We believe that in some of the cases tourists were observed at certain attractions and followed, or information was passed on to collaborators who awaited them. In four cases the incidents occurred in the late afternoon or evening. Main Street in Sabie. ALSO READ: St Peter’s pupils thrill on stage “As far as we are aware, all five cases have been reported to the police. “Lindiwe Mthombeni, manager of tourism safety for Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) is also aware of all incidents and is liaising with the various police stations as well as with the provincial commissioner’s office. “She also remains in touch with the victims and is assisting them in obtaining new travel documents, bank cards and safe accommodation. “In some instances, the accommodation establishment contacts their local tourism organisation who jumps in and deals with the matter and assists the tourists. It is the responsibility of the SAPS and MTPA to put processes in place to curb the attacks.” Hazyview offers attractive view for tourists. Provincial police had not commented at the time of going to press. A trip to the city centre of Mbombela also turned into a harrowing ordeal for five Mozambican nationals on Friday afternoon.
According to Callen Herbst, duty manager at Hi-Tech Security, a Mozambican taxi driver transporting a family of four was attacked in the CBD by three knife-wielding men. “The driver noticed a suspicious white VW Polo following them. When they came to a stop in Ferreira Street, close to the Wimpy, the men approached the vehicle and tried to take the car keys from the driver.” The men ordered the passengers out of the vehicle, but the husband resisted their attempts, following which they stabbed the driver in the chest. Hi-Tech Emergency Medical Services were on the scene and treated the wounded driver. White River is a popular tourist destination. “He sustained superficial cuts and the the men got into the white Polo and fled the scene,” said Herbst. The vehicle’s registration number is unknown and Herbst was unable to confirm whether a case had been lodged at the Nelspruit Police Station. He added that he believed the attack to have been an attempted hijacking and robbery.