 MBOMBELA – This was confirmed to Lowvelder by Theunis Duvenhage, Standard Bank’s provincial head for Mpumalanga and Limpopo, on Monday. Earlier this year Standard Bank announced that it would close 91 branches, but last week it announced that a total of 104 would be closed this month. Others affected in Mpumalanga include Amersfoort, Evander, KaMaqhekeza, Kwa Guqa and Ogies service centres. According to Duvenhage, Standard Bank is realigning its retail and business banking delivery model to the changing needs of customers amid rapid adoption of digital banking products and services. The shift in customer behaviour means that our clients are using our branches less,” he said. “As such, we have relooked our retail and business banking delivery model so that it is geared to serve the needs of our customers.” He said as part of the implementation of the new banking delivery model, some of the roles currently being performed in their branches will change. Read More: Former Standard Bank employee guilty of theft and fraud The actual number of employees who will ultimately exit the employ of Standard Bank in South Africa is expected to be lower than the 1 200 expected, as new opportunities will become available in the new operating model. Duvenhage said as consultations are still ongoing, they are not in a position to provide further details. He would not reveal how many people are employed at the Mbombela Service Centre branch. One employee told the newspaper on condition of anonymity, as they are not allowed to speak to the media, that there are 11 employees at the branch. We don’t know where our future lies. Since last Tuesday (June 4) there have been consultative meetings with the staff. “There are promises that they will assign us elsewhere. At the moment, we are continuing to work in the dark. The morale is down because everyone is uncertain about their future.” Duvenhage said they have worked hard to minimise the impact of the reorganisation on their people. As part of a support programme agreed with the South African Society of Bank Officials, which is a trade union, Standard Bank will implement a comprehensive exit package, which significantly exceeds the requirements as set out in the Labour Relations Act. “We have also set aside funds to assist employees to acquire new skills to improve their competitiveness in the labour market as well as entrepreneurial training and financial assistance. This has not been an easy decision to make. We recognise that this is a very stressful time for everyone,” said Duvenhage. Also Read: Standard Bank results While the futures of the employees working at the Brown Street branch hang in the balance, customers have nearby alternatives to visit for their banking in Mbombela, namely at Nel Plaza, Crossing Centre, i’langa Mall and Riverside Mall.