You will also enjoy visiting Bourke’s Luck Potholes, The Pinnacle, Mac Mac Falls and God’s Window. Spend your days relaxing in your luxury dwelling or indulge your wild side with a variety of Adventure Activities. There are excellent hiking trails in the area as well as the facilities at the resort itself. The resort is situated 35km from Hoedspruit and only 75km from the Orpen Gate of the Kruger National Park.  Whether you prefer to stay in style or rough it like a rogue cowboy – Swadini has it all! This award-winning three-star resort boasts fully equipped air-conditioned chalets that sleep between four and six guests, and all units are serviced daily. Then again, if you’re all about the authentic bushveld experience, consider our luxury self-catering tents or the picturesque caravan and camping grounds for the true adventurer! Rest assured, the entire resort is protected by 24-hour security. Hike through the majestic hills, take a dip in the heated or cold-water swimming pools, go on a game drive or go river-rafting to get your adrenaline pumping! What is more, Swadini is surrounded by must-see tourist destinations, which means you’re guaranteed to go home with great photos and first-class bragging rights.  Instead of sharing gossip around the water cooler, why not get to know each other with a team-building session at Swadini? We offer tailor-made packages to fit your budget and requirements, while Mother Nature helps set the scene for real and honest connections between colleagues. Renowned for its extensive selection of adventure-packed activities, Swadini is the perfect destination to build lasting friendships and team spirit – no cement or Lego blocks required!  There are few words as bland and unappealing as the word “conference” – but when you add ‘Swadini’ to it, your corporate event suddenly becomes the highlight on the quarterly calendar! Swadini boasts three modern and fully equipped conference rooms that can accommodate between 18 and 200 delegates, with conference coordinators on hand to help you plan an unforgettable event. Add to that the promise of adventure and your delegates are guaranteed to tick the “attending” button, and arm-wrestle over your invitations.  End the year on a note as high as the peaks surrounding the Blyde River Canyon! Swadini’s elegant event rooms can accommodate up to 200 people – so while we do not condone swinging cats, there is plenty of room to do so. Surrounded by awe-inspiring scenery and landscapes, there is really no better place to reflect on the highs and lows of a year gone by than at Swadini, A Forever Resort. 