 MBOMBELA – The induction of the new president-elect of the Lions Club proceeded amid much fanfare at Kuzuri Restaurant on Saturday evening. Feju Chandy, who was elected the 50th president of the club, said in his acceptance speech that he did not think he would ever be elected president of a Lions Club. “I am so honoured to serve you,” he said. He congratulated the immediate past president, Gail Jackman, on her year. “She did outstanding work in the community and within the club.” Outgoing president Gail Jackman and outgoing secretary Val Graham. Chandy thanked each member for their contributions throughout the year and expressed his wish that they would continue in the same vein. ALSO READ: WATCH: Marimba band has audience begging for more The club’s district governor, Peggy du Plooy, also attended. “This club is very close to my heart as they were awarded the club of the year status. The mid-year conference was well hosted, because everything went smoothly.” Xander Scheurkogel, marketing and communications chairman. Chandy spoke about his plans for the year and said his immediate aim was to increase membership, as he saw it as the driving force behind serving the community. He mentioned the need to create a second club within the Mbombela community and emphasised the need for a project at Rob Ferreira Hospital. This would focus on eye tests, diabetes and a host of other illnesses. The mandate from Lion’s Club International is the five pillars they pay attention to; diabetes, vision, hunger, the environment and childhood cancer. These were identified as major issues, and the local Lions Club members vowed that they would pay attention to these as stipulated by the mother body. Nimmi Chandy, incoming president Feju Chandy and outgoing president, Gail Jackman. ALSO READ: Pumas demolished by determined Griquas “We should be the driving force for change in our community,” Chandy said. The evening proceeded without a hitch and the president announced his board for 2019/20.