 WHITE RIVER – The annual Uplands Festival kicked off on Friday and culminated with an exciting line-up of sport, arts and culture over the weekend. The famed Drakensberg Boys Choir (DBC) were undoubtedly a highlight on the programme and they did not disappoint. Festival organiser, Tracey Russell, who celebrated her birthday on Saturday, said, “We are having a bumper year and are very excited about the Drakensberg Boys Choir and the Hocus Pocus theatre production. “Tickets were almost sold out before lunchtime on Saturday. Whiskey connoisseurs enjoyed a whiskey-tasting which was piped in by the Stevenson-Hamilton pipe band.” Festival organiser, Tracey Russell. ALSO READ: WATCH: The annual Uplands Festival was a feast for the ears The showjumping event saw rider and horse act as one, and there were a number of notable performances. Ellen Holland on Biscuit was the only child rider and she scored an impressive 34,4 in the jumpoff round. Just inside the quad, renowned snake handler Jason Stewart and his slithering snakes gave the crowd a peek into the lives of these reptiles. Buhle Maliba and Thapelo Mmadi. Stewart said, “I was bitten this year by this green mamba and am lucky to have escaped with my life.” He spoke about the paralysis which set in after he was bitten and the quick thinking which probably saved his life, to gasps from the audience. Keen festivalgoer, Liam Brander said that he always attended the festival, adding,”The vibes are always great at the festival.” Lowvelder spotted Idiatou Diallo and Kaira Naicker walking through the crowds, collecting money for CANSA. Diallou said, “We are raising money to fight cancer and the two of us are debutantes for the organisation.” ALSO READ: Laugh yourself warm this winter with a comedy mash-up at Emnotweni Self-taught Kabokweni artist, John Ncube. The art on display was something to behold and included watercolours, oil paintings, pottery and a number of artisanal crafts. First-time exhibitor at the festival, John Ncube, said that he hailed from BaBokweni and is self-taught. “I have had no formal training and the Uplands Festival is a great way for me to gain exposure and learn from the more seasoned artists about different techniques.” ALSO READ: Barberton no longer jewel of the Lowveld DBC treated onlookers to an impromptu performance of the national anthem and the crowds gathered to listen to the young men giving their unique version. The choirmaster, Tobias Stuckelberger said, “We have had a great welcome here. The boys were even taken on a tour of the Kruger National Park. “It’s not just about work, but some fun for the boys as well. Hopefully, we’ll be back next year, because it really is a great festival.” DBC choir masterTobias Stuckelberger and conductor Sashin Rathinasamy. Stuckelberger’s conductor, Sashin Rathinasamy added, “It feels like being a true patriot to your school because you are performing for an audience who has not seen you perform before. It is really uplifting.” Just across the quad, the Sweet Dreamers Marimba Band Project entertained spectators with their music and had Albert Myburgh and Leandro Rens tapping their feet and bobbing their heads. Albert Myburgh and Leandro Rens. The pair said, almost in unison, “We are having so much fun and the marimba band is the one thing we’ve enjoyed the most at this year’s festival.” As the afternoon wore on, the crowds drifted to the main marquee where the live entertainment held their attention. The event encompassed sport, music, art and theatre and provided tons of fun for all ages.