 Caring for your teeth is an essential part of your daily grooming routine, which is especially vital for growing children.
The reality, however, is that kids in a number of communities do not have access to and are not informed about the correct way to brush their teeth. Mbombela-based dentist, Dr Suliman Patel, enlisted the help of his partners to help change this situation by taking dental care to an organisation called Shechem in Msholozi and Huis Betlehem in Mbombela on Saturday. Christabel Lusiba, Siza Letsoalo and Dudu Mhlongo from Shechem. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: CIT heist at Lowveld Mall in Hazyview Shechem director, Siza Letsoalo, said they take care of a number of undocumented children from households where one parent is a foreign national. “As a result of this, they are denied access to schooling and we provide this at our centre.” The participating organisations included Patel, CRC Nelspruit Church, which distributes food in the area, IFS Liberty and Bestmed.
Patel was joined by Iante Tecklenburg as well as Bianca and Wynand Visagie to hand over toothbrushes and toothpaste to the 150 children gathered at the centre, courtesy of Colgate. Farra Gayaram, Precious Mkhatshwa, Dr Suliman Patel, Jabulani Ndlovu, Bianca Visagie, Wynand Visagie, Iante Tecklenburg and Zavion Tecklenburg. ALSO READ: Cables finally being removed Patel’s staff members Farhaa Gayaram, Precious Mkhatshwa and Jabulani Ndlovu were on hand to explain what foods should be avoided, how to brush your teeth and the importance of brushing at least three times a day after every meal. They also gave a demonstration on flossing. Some of the kids were surprised to hear that bacteria from food settled between the teeth, causing plaque to build up and eventual tooth decay. One asked whether eating sand posed any danger. Peace Mvubu flashes a bright smile. The children were excited about their gifts and little Ntsako Mathebula promised to make brushing her teeth a daily routine. “I can’t wait to get home and tell everyone what I have learned,” she said. “I will definitely make use of my new toothbrush so that I can have a bright smile.” ALSO READ: UPDATE: Four killed in accident on R40 near Hazyview Tecklenburg challenged other health-care professionals to reach out to communities in dire need of help as they do not have access to basic medical facilities. Contact her on 076-489-8110 to make a difference in the lives of these children.