 BARBERTON – The once-busy Scotia Talc Mine at Sheba Siding has been left abandoned following a wage dispute between the owner and employees. After wage negotiations broke down in April, community members descended on it and stripped off building materials, cables, roofing, windows and equipment. A tour of the mine by Lowvelder on Wednesday morning revealed the extent of the looting and the damage left in the aftermath. The bulk of the mineworkers were from the area, but a number of them hailed from neighbouring areas such as Barberton, Matsulu, Komati and as far afield as Limpopo, according to underground supervisor, Sam Sipho Manzini. ALSO READ: Standard Bank’s Brown Street branch to close Former shift supervisor, Sam Sipho Manzini points to severed cabling. The hostel which housed workers who lived outside the area was ransacked with only the structures left standing.
Manzini said the 47 workers employed at the mine demanded an increase of R40 per hour, which was double the amount they were earning when talks between the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) and mine management broke down. The 111-year-old mine started operations in 1908 and, according to their website, is expected to be operational for a further 40 years at current production levels. A Chamotte Holdings property, it was under the directorship of Robert Greaves at the time of its closure. Manzini said workers had not had any annual wage increases for the past five years. ALSO READ: Community, the answer to growing Barberton’s tourism All Manzini wants is for the mine to be re-opened. “We were paid R20 per hour for an eight-hour shift. General workers received a basic salary of
R2 800, which amounted to R3 500 after overtime and a sleeping-out allowance were included,” Manzini said. “We were about 47 employees in total, out of which only seven were permanently employed.” The company’s payroll and administration head, Yolandé Wessels, could not confirm this number, saying, “The payroll does not differentiate between permanent and contractual employment.” The mine manager’s home was destroyed by looters. ALSO READ: Police still working to give family closure after man’s untimely death Manzini was the sole breadwinner of a family of seven, including himself, and said he just wanted the mine reopened. “Right now, we are surviving on the children’s monthly grant. My children need to eat and I cannot be reliant on grant money to support
them,” he said. Greaves confirmed that workers went on strike after wage negotiations broke down in April. The workers staged an underground sit-in. “When I returned from Mozambique, we held meetings with mining union, Amcu, in Mbombela when the talks failed, the community vandalised and stripped the mine, which made it impossible to go there.” The machinery which has been left abandoned. Greaves indicated that the damage would take at least 10 years to repair, adding that the wage demands amounted to a 100 per cent increase, which was beyond what management could afford. “The South African talc industry is currently being flooded by Chinese imports, which drives the price down considerably,” he said. He cited this as the reason why he was unable to match the wage demands and opted to close the business instead. “There are groups who have shown interest in taking over the mine, but it is not promising. At this stage we are considering selling the mine as a going concern.” In the meanwhile, it stands deserted. Manzini has vowed to patrol it to keep looters out.