 MBOMBELA – Their passion and drive to add value and improve the lives of learners through quality education are what have brought this formidable team together. This is how Tersia Potgieter describes her partnership with Elsie Chiloane of Mthayiza Primary School in KaBokweni. Potgieter is passionate about her role in the local chapter of Partners for Possibility (PfP), which aims to provide quality education for all children in South Africa by 2025 through partnerships between business, government and the social sector. Tersia Potgieter is committed to making a difference PfP is all about empowering principals to become change leaders in their schools and communities to promote social cohesion. The core focus of is to enhance the quality of education and the overall school environment and foster proactive engagements between parents, teachers and community-based business leaders.

ALSO READ: Man arrested for murder of sibling girls Potgieter, a business manager at Nedbank Business Banking Nelspruit, takes her philosophy from the Bible. “Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might.” She applies this to everything she touches, including PfP. “It focuses on schools in rural areas. The aim is to make the school the centre of the community. If we invest the right time and energy we can create a better future.” Potgieter is a seasoned banker, who started her career from humble beginnings dating back to 1989, with the then-Volkskas Bank. During her 23 years at Absa, she was also a part-time student and attained her goal of completing her CAIB (SA) qualification through the Institute of Banking (IOB).

ALSO READ: FOTO’S EN VIDEOS: Sarkoom kry dapper Sean nie onder nie In her role as business manager, Potgieter can fulfil her purpose of not only adding value and but also developing sustainable businesses to drive economic growth. “I have the privilege of growing and developing small and medium businesses, which is the backbone of any thriving economy. Through Nedbank’s vast business and personal offerings, I can tailor a solution to meet the specific needs of a client.” Over the past 12 months, PfP has made it possible for Potgieter and Chiloane to work closely on addressing three priority needs of Mthayiza Primary, which has resulted in upgrading the safety of the children as well as increased participation from the community. ALSO READ: Bodybuilder puts on a different kind of show “My monthly interactions with Elsie resulted in shared knowledge and upliftment and most rewardingly being able to find solutions and implement the changes to the betterment of the school and the greater community.” Potgieter emphasises that community involvement is key to changing and elevating the quality education, thereby positively changing the lives of learners in rural areas. She adds that supporting the community does not always have to be monetary. Individuals’ time, skills and knowledge can be more valuable in certain circumstances.