 MBOMBELA –  Lowvelder reported earlier that the school governing body (SGB) threatened to shut the school down indefinitely due to overcrowding and concerns over the school’s safety. Jasper Zwane, spokesman for education said they remain optimistic that a solution that will make everyone happy will be found. There are about 781 learners in the school, which has a capacity for about 180. Read More: Klipspringer parents gather at school for shutdown The grade R classrooms and one of the bathrooms are also used as storerooms. The sickroom has been modified into an office where the teachers meet, since their staff room is being used as a classroom. A civil/structure engineer has also issued a structural inspection report that states the slabs in some of the classrooms have deformed beyond their safety limits. The report states that the roof was inadequately designed and as such is exhibiting classic signs of structural failure. The department has made a commitment to work side by side with the SGB of Klipspringer to remedy whatever impediments exist in that space,” Zwane said. The SGBs of Nelspruit Primary and Laerskool Laeveld have voiced similar concerns about their own overcrowding. Yet, Zwane said all public schools are expected to admit new learners for 2020. Zwane said early registration of learners enables schools to plan in advance and to commence with learning on the first day of school. He encouraged all parents to register their children of school going age for the 2020 school year before August 30. Also Read: Mr Eben Wessels, principal of Klipspringer Primary School writes: Parents are required to produce an application form from the school, official birth certificate of the child, proof of immunisation, a transfer card if a learner transfers from one public school to another and the last report card issued by the previous school. No learner can be refused admission on the basis that his/her parents are unable to pay school fees,” he added. “Learners with special disabilities must also be admitted to schools in line with the dictates of White Paper No 6,” said Zwane. If a parent experiences problems with the registration, they are asked to contact the nearest circuit office or the department’s toll-free number on 080-020-3116