 MBOMBELA – Nelspruit Hospice prides itself on providing much-needed palliative care for the sick. The services provided at the centre do not end there and last Friday, it hosted a party for patients in its care. The event was held at African Dream Amenities in Mbombela. There was entertainment galore, courtesy of Judy Black who said entertaining the elderly was her passion. The incoming Nelspruit Hospice manager, Landi Bezuidenhout, was in attendance and bemoaned the lack of information available to the public about the services the organisation renders to frail patients and their families. Marinda Olckers and Landi Bezuidenhout. ALSO READ: Masher family claims killing was execution “Hospice cares for people with life-limiting and -threatening diseases. We promote palliative care, which promotes a better quality of life for patients and their families and we render these services at our patients’ homes,” she said. Marinda Olckers, who served as the organisation’s manager for a number of years, wished Bezuidenhout all the best in her new position. “I know she will take it a step further as they continue caring for the sick.” The event organiser, Corna Steenkamp is responsible for placing care workers with patients. “We care for the sick and strive to ensure that they experience something different each day.” Nomsa Nsingwane, Corna Steenkamp and Gloria Nkosi. ALSO READ: Oud-Laevelder palm eerste plek in by Kona Yesterman in Hawaii She has been involved with the organisation for the past three years and heads a team of dedicated care workers. “They are indeed stars and the team goes the extra distance in providing care to our patients,” she added. The entertainment for the day included a unique version of the famed “I will follow Him” from the movie Sister Act, which had the audience in stitches throughout the performance. Judy Black provided the entertainment. ALSO READ: VIDEO: Bikers’ tunnel welcomes rugby players Wheelchair-bound Mona Campbell, who enjoyed the occasion, could not hold back her laughter and was full of praise for the work done by hospice. “Hospice is a wonderful organisation because you can always knock at their door for help. Even at short notice, they’re always available, “ she said. Nelspruit Hospice is located at 84 Ferreira Street and can be reached on 013-744-0095.