 Dr Prudence Buthelezi is one of 25 women who received this honour during the Influential Women of the Year Awards. The prestigious event was held at Sibaya Casino and Entertainment Kingdom in Durban on June 14 and 15. The awards are given to women who have contributed to society and made a difference. Nominations for these awards were done via social media and the final nominees were determined by a public vote. Judges then made their decisions. ALSO READ:Ontmoet die man agter SA se grootste konserte Buthelezi is a local general practitioner with two practices, one in Mbombela and one in KaNyamazane. She started practising in 2017. She gives back to the community through various initiatives, including giving the elderly food parcels for Christmas and distributing sanitary towels and uniforms to the less fortunate through the Musoma Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Authority. She also started an association called National Health Care Professionals in 2016. It assists healthcare professionals in the battles that they face, such as unemployment among doctors. ALSO READ:Robbers escape with an undisclosed amount in Mbombela CBD “We know the problems that the community faces with standing in long queues due to a shortage of doctors. We also assist with the medical aid issues regarding the rights of patients to consult with the doctor of their choice and not to be limited by the medical aid,” she explained. According to Buthelezi, dealing with the battles that health professionals face makes it possible for the community to receive the services that they need. The local doctor says she is over the moon to have shared a stage with such excellent women during the awards. “I am really so excited to receive an award as 2019 Influencial woman. I am thankful to the organisers such as Pinky Mothie for honouring all women in SA who are playing great roles in our communities,” she said.
Buthelezi said this has encouraged
and assured her that what she is doing is much appreciated and she must keep working hard.