This charming home is situated in The Rest Country Estate, a mere 500m from Bateleur Lifestyle Estate.  The home offers European charm and beautiful views.  The home features a formal lounge, family room, study and real farmstyle kitchen.  There is a guest suite downstairs and upstairs features 3 bedrooms with two bathrooms.  The home has a lot of potential as it has  large staff quarters, as well as 2 outside rooms which can be utilised as office or gym, three garages with an adjoining room which can be used as store or butchery.  The bonus of this home is that it also has two 1 bedroom cottages which ensures a nice rental income. Allow nature to surround you as the selection of game will make you feel as if you are on a permanent holiday.   Do not be a slave to rent, now is the time to own your own property. Open plan kitchen, family room, with doors leading to a small patio and garden. Upstairs, three bedrooms with the main being en-suite and another bathroom. One undercover parking and space for additional parking. Situated in a very popular and Secure complex. Call to view, this one will be gone soon….   Exclusive Mandate – Awaken by the sounds of nature, it is easy to forget you’re in town when you’re on the grounds of this home with its tranquil, indigenous garden. This beautiful home is situated on a  1867 sqm stand in a very sought after golf estate. Spacious open plan reception rooms and a well equipped kitchen provides access to a covered patio.  The large main bedroom with an en-suite bathroom, walk-in closet and private study is separate from the other 2 bedrooms.  This home has a 120 sqm entertainers room with its own bathroom and kitchen and can easily be converted into a flatlet.  A double garage completes the perfect picture.   R1 750 000
Exclusive Mandate A real gem situated in West Acres, close to High Schools.  Very neat  4 bedroomer, lounge / dining and separate television lounge . Spacious and delightful lapa with jacuzzi, braai area and a  hot house for the itchy fingered. 1x flat generate an income of R 3500 pm   Situated in a Secured Private Nature Reserve, only 40km from the Malelane Gate, you’ll find this touchstone for your sole! An exceptional neat and spacious, 2 Bedroom-2 Bathroom home, as well as a separate 45m2 self maintained cottage. A large double garage and lots of parking space. Enjoy the lovely views , sunsets and the joyful Sunbirds from the stoep or the pool . Drive through the 1,200ha Game Fenced Reserve, and become part of the fairly tame game . This is truly a very affordable and rare gem- not often to be found!    