For the past 19 years Sasol has hosted the exhibition. Since 2015 the exhibition has alternatively been hosted between Sasolburg and Secunda. Sasol Techno X is an annual career exhibition that is part of the company’s programmes that promote sustainable socio-economic development through education. It mainly promotes STEM education at schools to enable access to tertiary education, and ultimately boosts the pool of technical, vocational and STEM-related skills among the youth of South Africa. The exhibition is targeting high school learners from across the country and enables them to engage with the real world application of STEM subjects in a way that creates interest and captivates the imagination. This will be the third time Sasol Techno X is hosted in Secunda. During 2015 and 2017 more than 48 000 learners from different provinces, with a large number from Mpumalanga province attended the exhibition. Learners are given access to relevant information on careers within STEM-related fields, career guidance and bursary opportunities from different institutions. Learners further directly engage with academic institutions in order to get better insights on the fields of study they would like to pursue. The exhibition also offers learners an opportunity to enter various competitions (such as science, art and making fashion garments from used recyclable materials) Wow-shows, where scientific principles are demonstrated to inspire and motivate the next generation of scientists are a highlight on the daily programme. Many learners who attended previously, said that they were impressed with the easy access to information regarding possible career paths they can follow in future. Another “not-to-be missed” show is the Kalahari Scientist who teaches scientific principles through demonstrations designed to inspire and motivate our country’s future leaders. His passionate way of presenting, coupled with clear explanations, makes it a truly memorable experience for learners and teachers.  