Lion Tree Top Lodge is situated in a private nature reserve in the heart of the game rich area, bordering the Kruger National Park’s western boundary in Limpopo.  We are a small exclusive lodge offering a unique African experience. We have five intimate and private, luxury treetop tents with sunken or corner baths, inside and outside showers, large decks, fans and bar fridges. All accommodation offers a choice of king or twin beds with canopy-style mosquito nets. There are also cosy sitting areas with tea and coffee stations in all our tents.  Our Leopard famliy unit sleeps 4 people in two separate tree top tents and now boasts a fully equipped kitchen and boma overlooking the dam. We can now offer a self-catering option for our famliy unit. Our family unit can only be booked en-block. Please email the lodge for more information.  Enjoy our informal relaxed atmosphere. Start the day with coffee and freshly baked rusks followed by a morning walk with our lions. After a sumptuous breakfast, simply laze around the pool, all the while keeping an eye on the waterhole. The afternoon bush walk with the lions will leave you thirsty and ready for sundowners at our beautiful little bar under the giant Huilboerboon. Dinner will be served in the boma or on the lodge verandah.  We have raised white lion cubs that are now fully-grown and part of the Lion Tree Top Lodge family. The African Lion has become vulnerable. Following the discovery of the decline of the lion population, several coordinated efforts involving lion conservation have been organised in an attempt to stem the decline. We are proud to be part of this effort.  Experience the thrill of walking with our white lions! Other activities offered in our reserve include game drives, bush walks, day trips to the Kruger National Park in open vehicles and boat rides on the Blyde dam where you get to see our famous canyon from the inside. The Moholoholo animal rehabilitation centre is a must see as is the Hoedspruit Endangered Species Centre. The Panorama Route is an easy drive from Lion Tree Top Lodge as is the Kruger National Park.  The owners of Lion Tree Top Lodge have been in the hospitality industry since 1995 and ensure personal attention and care at all times. Cellular 
+27 (0)83 376 3048 / +27 (0)82 517 6336 Email 
info@liontreetoplodge.com GPS Coordinates:
24º31’21.8″S, 31º07’18.2″E (DMS)
-24.5227222, 31.12172 (DD)