 This is a philosophical question, I think, because of the variables within each person’s likes and dislikes. There is nothing wrong with striving for perfection, but in everyday life, this may well prevent us from doing just what needs to be done when it needs to be done. Doing the right things is more important than doing them perfectly. The Universe has taught me on a humanitarian level that if your intention is pure, but your methodology lacks, the Universe will conspire to help you and you will still achieve what was intended nevertheless.  Did someone call a timeout? Yes, I did; let me get back to the intention of this article – to tell you about the Lexus UX! Chief engineer for the new Lexus UX Chicka Kako said, “Our aim for the new UX was not to conform to the established crossover look, but to break with convention and create something more distinctive and dynamic. ” Well, Chicka, in my opinion, you achieved that aim and congratulations are in order. My test vehicle was the UX 200 F-Sport, Terrane Khaki in colour and just absolutely beautiful.  The design, which is quite angular and exuding power par excellence, is one of those that you could just park in your ceramic-tiled and sparkingly polished garage, pull up the recliner and sit and stare at, while also listening to your favorite classics employing the UX’s Mark Levinson Audio system. Observing the light reflections on the various “broken” surfaces, is absolute zen. There’s a calmness that overflows your thoughts and stills the mind. It’s meditation in action. UX is derived from urban (U) plus X-over (crossover) and its intention is to attract younger buyers to the brand.  It is constructed on a compact Global Architecture platform which renders excellent handling and, the F-Sport in particular, exciting driving and on-road performance. At the front one is confronted with that in-your-face spindle grill, arrowhead light clusters and sculpted bonnet. It is absolutely determined to catch and hold your attention. Crisp and surfaces and lines then entices one to follow the shoulder line and masculine wheel arches. The design of the rear combination lamps, do according to Lexus, reduce turbulence. The UX’s wing-type spoiler at the rear contributes to the vehicles’ quietness and fuel-efficiency.  Of course, if one wants to cut through all the adjectives and academic intellectuality, the short description of the rear end, and using a colloquial Afrikaans expression is: “Dis sommer windgat”. The interior oozes understated luxury and elegance centered around a driver-focused cockpit. Body-hugging heated and ventilated seats offering multiple adjustments will keep you “in your place” whether you drive the UX or, do a Miss Daisy. To enhance your time in this office, S-Flow climate control with nano technology, will – and get this – moisturize your skin and hair.  There is a 10.3-inch display via which you can access all driving and entertainment info and settings. The UX also offers a touch pad on the console between the driver and passenger seats which allows for intuitive interaction with vehicle info, navigation and entertainment. ALSO READ: Lexus luxury coupe proves to be visionary Be warned though that you will have to sit yourself down to familiarize yourself with this technology and its workings. One disappointing element though was the lack of legroom in the rear once I have set the seat to my preference. The 2.0-litre VVT-iE engine delivers 126kW and 205Nm which it powers through an eight-speed direct shift exceptionally smooth gearbox to the front wheels. With Adaptive Variable Suspension at each wheel offering no less than 650 levels of dampening force, the UX’s on-road performance is extremely comfortable.  At speed its also not unlike that of a go-cart. Steering is direct and precise and when you switch to the anyone of the two Sport modes, it sticks to the road like tac. And boy oh boy, that screeching engine note, is not good for the itch, believe you me! The Sport S+ mode adjusts suspension, steering and throttle response for an exhilaration drive – even though it only offers 126kW. Have you ever driven the Montrose road down to Sudwala?  Either direction offers a wonderful and exiting drive. From Mbombela’s direction though, be mindful of the last two corners before you reach Sudwala – they will sting you man… Of course the UX is kitted with the latest and the greatest safety features inclusive of a pre-crash system, adaptive cruise control, lane departure alert, automatic high-beam adjustment, blind spot monitoring and a panoramic view monitor which presents you with 360-degree around the entire car, hands-free tailgate and more. There is ABS, EBD, traction and stability control. Okay, let’s also add eight airbags. Happy now? The UX presents an elegant crossover with a modern, contemporary design and package that will certainly make everyone look twice, trice and whiplash. It is the personification of compact luxury and the F-Sport in particular, once you engage that Sport S or Sport S+ mode, it will unleash the boy racer.  At near R642 000, it is not cheap but then again, if you want it, you want it! The award-winning Lexus sales consultant Mbali Makhubela would love to introduce you to this and other Lexus models. So go try it… ALSO READ: Lexus focuses on driving luxury for all