The leading training, education and motivation institution in town’s goal to train and place as many students as possible was on display as 165 students officially received their caps. By 07:30 every available space, from the top of the foyer stairs all the way outside, was filled with graduates, their parents and their friends. Some of the graduates were tearful as the pride and sense of achievement hit home. ATTI is aligned to the national initiatives regarding training and development strategies and is registered with all the relevant bodies to ensure students obtain recognised qualifications. The graduates’ hard work was rewarded and the crowd did not stop clapping as each person stepped up on stage. “You took the first step,” ATTI centre manager, Johann Mynhardt told the graduates. “You studied and were successful. That means that you can do anything that you put the effort into. Keep it up and fly. You took the first step, now take the next.” He added that lifelong learning was vital. “Study as much as possible and never stop. Keep up with trends and business best practices so that your skills increase everyday in order for you to stay relevant.” ATTI is well known for offering courses to keep even professionals’ qualifications relevant. Their expertise spans across IT learning, bookkeeping, small business management, Funeral services, Advertising, Journalism, Welding (in association with Fakutho Trading) and office administrative skills training relevant to the marketplace. A new introduction is a full international qualification for a diploma or undergraduate qualification in tourism or hospitality management. Also on offer is entrepreneurship and small businesses fundamentals certification and qualifications in digital and social media marketing. Mynhardt concluded by thanking all government departments, the Sector Education and Training Authority, the Department of Higher Education and Training, college owners, management, quality assurance, trainers, facilitators and staff, as well as students and their parents for the successful year. He also thanked Mica for sponsoring the flowers and plants on the day.    