 MBOMBELA – Penryn College celebrated its annual Founders’ Day last Friday. The school was a hive of activity as the pupils, parents and teachers enjoyed a host of activities. This year marks 28 years since the school was founded on the principles of educational excellence for all through Penryn College, Penryn Preparatory and Penreach. The school chapel was packed as pupils from different grades performed on stage, giving credence to its belief that all talents are explored and honed at the school. A highlight for the audience was when three pupils, each carrying a jigsaw puzzle of the school’s crest, walked onstage, signifying that a divided Penryn was fragmented and of no benefit, while a united Penryn is what drove the school to achieving its motto; “One and all”. Lwandile Shongwe. ALSO READ: Ready, set, bet for charity

The stage was set for a day of celebration through song and dance and started with the grade threes. Shoain Shelton, the school’s junior primary sports coordinator, said, “Penryn’s fun Founders’ Days are always a highlight on the Penryn calendar and this year was no different. “The morning started off with lots of excitement as our grade threes geared up to take part in a very exciting, fun Founders Day event. They got to take part in various activities, from water sports to three-legged races. The day was enjoyed in true Penryn Pride fashion. The younger pupils also spelt out the school’s name for an aerial photograph. Matthew Parker and Ntando Nkosi. ALSO READ: WATCH: The countdown to the Mpumalanga Show 2019

Penelope Smith, Penryn marketing manager, said, “This year, our Founders’ Day was the perfect mix of a celebration and reverence of all that Penryn is and has been for the past 28 years. “Beyond celebrating being Proudly Penryn, in the end, we also left the event feeling proudly South African. The tribute to visionary South Africans, such as Johnny Clegg and of course, our guest speaker, mayor Mandisa Mfeka, as well as our founders, left us all inspired to continue to reach for greatness and proud to be part of the Penryn family.” Eva Reed during the open mic. ALSO READ: Watch It in Ster-Kinekor theatres, we dare you Once the formalities were concluded, the Penryn Street Party kicked off with a number of performances; most notably, an a cappella group, Just 6, who had the audience enthralled with their vocal abilities. The Street Party was organised by the Penryn Parents Association committee, headed by Maurice Meyer. “The Festival of Lights was a real red, blue and white celebration of Penryn unity and community,” he said. “What better way to end a fantastic Founders’ Day ceremony than to see friends and families come together and enjoy good music and company. There truly was something special in the air on Friday evening and if this year’s event is anything to go by, I am sure the 2020 one will be even more amazing!”