 Some newly-appointed teachers in the province have not been paid this year, because their paperwork is allegedly not in order. One teacher told Lowvelder that about 200 educators were affected. Department of Education spokesman, Jasper Zwane did not confirm how many were affected. Zwane said the payments were delayed because some educators had not submitted all the required documents in time. ALSO READ: MEC warns public of increase in drowning “These documents include SACE certificates, academic statements or identity documents. The teachers had to reapply,” he told Lowvelder. “Those who submitted all the required documents have been paid. This applies only to teachers whose contracts ended in April 2019 and extended from May 1 to December 2019” said Zwane. He also said the workers at the district office were unable to assist these teachers, because they cannot access the building due to ongoing renovations. ALSO READ: Rob Ferreira Hospital workers vow to continue protesting if MEC Gillion Mashego does not step in According to a teacher from Gutjwa Primary in KaBokweni, they have been working for five months without pay.
The man requested not to be named for fear of victimisation. He joined the department in March, but he is not happy with this situation. He is unable to take care of his family, who depend on him. “My problems is that we are not receiving our salaries, yet we are expected to report for duty. I reported my issues at the department’s circuit office but still there is no help from their side. “I have three children that I have to ensure have food and I pay their school fees. I am also struggling to pay my debts. I am confused, stressed and I am still expected to teach at the school daily,” he said. He approached the circuit office, but claims he found the workers on a go-slow. The department dismissed this allegation. “The department is renovating some sections of the offices,” Zwane said. “They have resulted in getting a makeshift working arrangement to ensure that services are not compromised. The department fully appreciates the good work of these educators, and as such will always act in their best interests. “We are monitoring the renovations closely to ensure that they are completed within the stipulated time.”
Zwane urged those teachers to urgently submit their paperwork, so that they can
be paid.