 BARBERTON – A game of dice turned deadly for Siyabonga Nkosi (29) on Friday evening. According to Barberton Police Station Commander, Col Johan Engelbrecht, Nkosi sustained a gunshot wound to his upper body, which killed him. Engelbrecht confirmed that the incident occurred at about 22:40 in Greyville. He said, “According to reports, Nkosi and others were playing a game of dice when one of the players involved in the game drew a firearm and shot him. “We cannot confirm if this version of events is what transpired, but police are calling on the public to come forward with any information which may lead to the arrest and prosecution of the perpetrator.” This latest shooting follows last week Sunday’s incident at the Tzaneen Fourway Stop. According to the station commander, three people were wounded during the incident. One of the shooting victims succumbed to his injuries three days later.

ALSO READ: Abuse allegations under investigation at Curro Mbombela

Engelbrecht said, “No arrests have been made and the case is currently being investigated by the SAPS provincial office.” The Barberton police spokesman, Capt Jabu Ndubane, said that the suspect is known to the police and investigations into the shooting are continuing. She said, “According to eyewitnesses at the scene, the alleged shooter went into the bottle store and when he emerged, started firing. The deceased gunshot victim is 24-year-old Emmanuel Mabuza, and the docket has been hand over to the provincial office for investigation.” ALSO READ: Rob Ferreira Hospital workers vow to continue protesting if MEC Gillion Mashego does not step in

The surge in crime has residents concerned for their safety. A source who wished to remain anonymous said, “The township has become very unsafe, especially at night. We do not know whether this is gang-related and what the reason behind the killings are.” A nurse at the Barberton General Hospital, who declined to be named, spoke to Lowvelder and said, “We are experiencing a surge of shootings and stabbings, especially over the weekends. It has reached the point where hospital staff fear for their lives because they go as far as coming to the hospital to threaten staff.”