 And of course, is it still applicable in today’s economic conditions? Well, there is a tremendous need for qualified artisans and, in my mind, I believe that the aforementioned observation still holds true. Can an artisan also be an artist? Absolutely yes. I am about to introduce you to just one such talented artisan/artist! Wynand Dehning (there is a German connection) is employed by Riverside Panelbeaters as a spray painter and colour mixer. He grew up in Muizenberg in the Cape, eventually ended up in Klerksdorp and has now settled in Mbombela. He is an avid sportsman, or rather he was and participated in marathons, cycling and martial arts. The activity has slowed down to a trickle, though, “but yes, I would love to get active again,” he said.  “Although I have had no formal training in art, I have always been interested and drew since I can remember. I love to draw animals, trees and dinosaurs. I struggle with portraits though. I can draw eyes, but the rest does not come naturally.” Wynand became fascinated with airbrush work and techniques in the 90s. “At the time, it was kind of cloaked in a lot of secrecy, too. Airbrush work back then was very much a fantasy art. Images of skeletons and dragons were extremely popular,” he said. ALSO READ: Sabie Tube Race 2019: All you need to know “There was not much information and books available on the subject. I studied other artists, watched movies, experimented a lot with technique and texture, and eventually became proficient with the art.  “If a client does not have a picture of what they want, I would often start with a pencil sketch or do a rendering, and then build it up until we are clear on what is required. Realism is important to me. Also, rendering a final airbrush work as close to the reference of the client as possible is important. This often requires many hours of prep work before I actually start on the image or images. Many commissions demand a layer-by-layer build-up of the final work.  “One needs a steady hand for airbrush work. There are no fine or broad brushes. The nozzle on the airbrush has a needle inside and as one pulls or pushes this needle, it renders broader or thinner lines but, said Wynand, “if you do this long enough, the double-action hand movement and muscle memory enables one to become proficient in the art.” He uses both solvent and water-based spray paint for his work. He also uses many different materials to create texture within an image. “The creative aids are aplenty and all over, and as artists, we tend to use things other people consider useless. “Also, the major difference between entry-level and expensive airbrushes is that the latter minimizes what is referred to as ‘over-spray’. This is particularly helpful when doing extremely detailed work,” he said. His passion for airbrush work is obvious and his dream is to combine oil paint (another of his pet loves) with airbrush work, as this will bring a more three-dimensional element to his art. Well, it is pretty impressive as is if you ask me, but then, art is a lifelong exercise in learning and exploring to find your own unique technique that will differentiate your work from the next artist.  “To airbrush, a helmet requires a lot of time, as one has to completely strip the helmet first. And of course the rounded shape does, in terms of dimensions, present many challenges,” said Wynand. “I like those seemingly impossible challenges. It forces one to push the limits and thus develop and improve one’s ability to create powerful imagery and art. “His mind is filled with art images and the interpretation thereof. So, whether you want your art image idea on a helmet, a car or a retro fridge, you can commission these and more through Riverside Panelbeaters, and in the process make Wynand’s day. ALSO READ: Historic saloons muscle up as they race for glory