 WHITE RIVER –  The school recently found traces of dagga in her urine. According to the school’s principal, Dawie Oberholzer, the girl underwent a drug test on April 30 upon his request. “The mother’s permission was asked prior to the test, which she agreed to,” Oberholzer explained. “The learner did not refuse or dispute any point at any stage, and remarked that she has understood and accepted the results.” According to him, a Homemed Multidrug 5-Panel Urine Dip-card test was used. “The test results were not sent for verification, because the parties present agreed on the results.” According to the child’s father, who does not want to be named out of fear of victimisation of his child, she did smoke dagga, “but during the school holidays and not on the school’s premises. This means that she was not intoxicated when she went to school, as dagga stays in your blood for about 30 days after you have smoked it.” Sanca’s Marina Erasmus. ALSO READ: WATCH: The lowdown on drugs in schools On the point of consent, the father argued he and his wife are separated and that he is the child’s legal guardian. According to Sanca Lowveld’s director, Marina Erasmus, all urine must be sent to a lab in Pretoria for verification. She said there is better ways to deal with a positive test result, than banning someone from a matric farewell. “An action like this might send a strong message for the whole school, but it may completely demotivate this child to complete her high school career. It is a totally punitive measure that will not help the child’s future at all.” The father agrees with Erasmus that banning his child from the matric farewell is not a good decision. “She is a clever girl and not into drugs or anything like that. When pupils have problems, however, the school does not offer rehabilitation or counselling. If my child really had a problem, this is not the way to deal with it.” Oberholzer said the school governing body “is extremely worried about the tendency that parents are increasingly trying to protect children from being held accountable for not complying with a code of conduct. A matric farewell is a privilege and not a right.” He argued the learner did undergo counselling at the school. “Usually the parents are requested to put the learner who tested positive in a rehabilitation programme with organisations equipped to do so.” ALSO READ: Organisations worried over lack of detox programmes For more information, visit the local Sanca branch at 8 Hope Street. They can be phoned on 013-752-4376 or 013-755-2710, or be contacted via email at info@sancalowveld.co.za. You can also visit their website on www.sancalowveld.co.za.