 I have always considered previous generation Mazdas to be – well, somewhat over-designed, which actually distracted more from the car than enhancing it. And I like Mazda’s observation that the 3 now sports a more matured KODO-inspired design language. It is smoother with subtle undulations and a lot less sharp edges.  This allows light and the body to reflect a different kind of rich and elegant vitality. It is wide and low and just looking at it, calms the mind and soothes the itch. The hatch is more sportier, though, and would also be my personal choice, dressed in Polymetal Grey. In the Astina derivative, fitted with 18-inch wheels, it is a magnetic, aggressive attention-grabber. The interior is utterly uncluttered and minimalistic. The finish and fit are superbly elegant and this combination enhances the 3’s driving enjoyment.  One is not confronted by all the bells and whistles (which of course are definitely present) showing up in lights, and this really invites a more intuitive exploration of what is available via the shift knob commander control on the center console, which extends right down to between the front seats. ALSO READ:Vroom, vroom… Lowvelders, we’re off to the races Seats are comfortable and the sedan, in particular, offers excellent front and rear legroom. And that boot – it is large and deep, despite a smaller entry gap.  The 3 offers a quiet, comfortable, mobile, get-away-from-the-rat-race space which may well just be what the doctor ordered for you and your family. The 3 also introduces the driver/owner to its all-new 8,8-inch Mazda Connect infotainment screen which supports MZD Connect, which is standard on all models. This includes a three-way eight-speaker layout. In the Active models, a BOSE 12-speaker system will see you spend more time in your Mazda in your garage than in front of your lacking-surround-sound television set, and listening to good soul-enriching music.  A seven-inch TFT gauge display will greet you from behind the steering, this also being height and reach adjustable. The steering offers access to the audio system, Bluetooth and the rest. The Astina and Individual models offer some more luxury and technology features. The only extras I would suggest to be standard even in the base Active model, are front and rear park distance sensors. Mazda’s advance i-ACTIVSENSE combines performance and linear response elements to enhance the driver’s cognitive ability and performance.  On the Astina i-ACTIVSENSE includes, among other, blind spot monitoring, hill assist, rear cross traffic alert, and driver/passenger/side and curtain air bags. The new 3 comes with two engine derivatives: a SKYACTIVE-G 1.5 liter, pushing 88kW and 153Nm and a 2.0-litre, delivering 121kW and 213Nm with either a manual or automatic six-speed gearbox.  I drove the 1.5 manual, and loved the precise and effortless shifting on the manual box. It is no firecracker, but when you push the revs, it gets you up and running. Most impressive, though, is that when you keep the revs above 3000, the somewhat limited 153Nm ensures comfortable uphill driving.  It is wide and low, thus presenting an excellent centre of gravity, which allows for confident, spirited corner and sweeps driving. Fuel index on the open road surprised with a superb 5,5-liters/100km with cruise control set on 120km/h. The sedan is large.  But despite lacking that customary planted feel of large sedans, it was confident, precise and surprised us with an excellent driving experience on a return trip to Krugersdorp. I agree with Kim – the new 3 certainly offers an alternative to the other luxury brands. Without driving it though, you will never know. And you know what they say: regret in hindsight can be quite brutal! Pricing starts at R357 000 (incl VAT). ALSO READ: Here comes the Tonder