 Barberton Rugby Club will have two teams in the local club finals on Saturday. Barberton I will host the Pumbas of Hoedspruit in the Phakisa Mayor’s League final at 15:30 at Coronation Park. The curtain-raiser will be the Phakisa Mayor’s Reserve League final between Barberton II and Matsulu I at 14:00. The first team of Barberton Rugby Club thrashed the Ratels of Ohrigstad Rugby Club 55-6 in the semi-final at Coronation Park on Saturday. The first half was evenly matched, with Barberton scoring two tries to the Ratels’ two drop goals. Ohrigstad’s nerves got the better of them and they battled to get into the match. As the game progressed they lifted their game and countered Barberton’s attacking game plan. Two excellent drop goals by the Ratels full back, Siyabulela Mbangi, kept them in the match. ALSO READ: Hoërskool Nelspruit u/16s bring home Virsekerbeker https://lowvelder.co.za/500460/hoerskool-nelspruit-u16s-bring-home-virsekerbeker/ The half-time score was 12-6 and it seemed the the huge crowd at the iconic and beautiful rugby ground was going to be in for a humdinger of a second half. The game was on a knife edge and could go either way. Barberton had other ideas. They came out breathing fire and ran everything at the Ratels. Forwards and backs ran straight and strong and the visitors’ defence fell apart. Barberton scored seven tries in the second half as they ran holes through the Ratels’ defence. What was more impressive than the 55-6 score was the fact that they did not concede a try. Barberton’s defence was rock solid. Lock, Hans Meyer scored three tries. Flanker, Juandre Smith kicked five conversions. The Ratels gave their everything, but could not cope with the pace and power of Barberton’s game. The cohesion showed by Barberton was a clear reflection of hard work put in on the training field. The team played as a unit. In the other semi-final the Pumbas of Hoedspruit beat the Rooikatte of Lydenburg 35-23. The Pumbas outscored their opponents by five tries to three.