MBOMBELA – If you have not experienced the magic of dining al fresco in the streets of the city, you have to do so at this year’s Night of a 1000 Stars. Once again, beautifully decked tables and a multitude of sparkling lights will line Sonpark Boulevard. Local restaurateurs have the opportunity to impress guests with a themed three-course meal. Tables are decorated according to the general theme of the night, and guests must also dress up to fit the theme. The theme this year is “Rio Rhythms”.  The Latin American band, Mojito Swing, will provide the entertainment and ensure that there is an exciting party vibe in the streets. Local songstress, Natascha C will also grace the stage with a few sultry jazz numbers when the band takes a breather. The event is held to raise funds for CANSA, and R160 of every ticket will be donated to the charity to support the many services they render to the public in the Lowveld.  A portion of the funds raised is earmarked to do screenings for skin, prostate and breast cancer, as well as pap smears. “More lives can be saved through early detection, and it is CANSA’s mission to give people who cannot afford it or cannot get to medical facilities easily the opportunity to get affordable screenings.” “Fundraising projects such as Night of a Thousand Stars makes this possible,” said Pauline Möller, community mobiliser at CANSA Lowveld. “We are excited to play host for an event which has such a positive impact on the community,” said Kobus Jacobs of Sonpark, one of the main sponsors of the event.  Tickets for this exciting event are available from the participating restaurants, and guests are welcome to book directly with their favourite eatery. Participating restaurants
Kokkedoor Chef Tables 013-741-5294
A Bica 074-089-9594
Cicada 013-741-1751
The Winkler Hotel 013-750-7300
Zest: Fully Booked
Orange: Fully booked
Bistro Bistro: Fully booked For more information or if your restaurant would also like to participate, please contact Mariolise or Sandra:   