 “Each time a woman stands up for herself, without knowing it, possibly, without claiming it, she stands up for all women.” This quote by Maya Angelou perfectly captures the spirit of Women’s Day, which the country celebrates today. To honour them, Lowvelder caught up with some of the many local women who are making an impact in their fields and communities. Goitsi Tsolanku, Tsogo Sun sales manager, said August is a very special month. “We celebrate women who inspire and contribute to society with their time, talent and wisdom. As part of the celebration, I will be attending a Women’s Day function at the University of Mpumalanga.”    Tsolanku’s message to young women out there is that they should work hard, reach for their dreams and stay humble. She added that her peers should not forget to embrace the spirit of Izimbokodo. According to Antoinette Fourie, the owner of Coral Events and Coral Blooms, her inspiration comes from her daughters, because they push her to do better every day. She believes that this month and day are very special, particularly in today’s times when women are expected to work like they do not have kids.    “You are a leading lady in your own life; act like it and take control. Stop waiting for Friday, because happiness and success is achieved when you stop waiting for it. Make the most of the moment you are in now,” Fourie said. ALSO READ: Safety tips in parking areas for women driving alone Sibongile Sambo, the founder and CEO of SRS Aviation Ltd, was named Game Changer during the ABM Sunrise Women Awards 2019. She said women are a power to reckon with. To her the day means women’s freedom. She encouraged women of all spheres to celebrate unity and her message is females should stay true to themselves and work together. “If you are not passionate about what you do, no amount of skill or work will make you successful.” ALSO READ: Healthy tips to consider this Women’s Month This is a message to all women by Chantie Olivier, the owner and creative director of Creative Combo Design Studio. She has been the head graphic designer for Innibos since 2012 and Mpumalanga Show since 2019. To her this day is about celebrating being a woman, how much you have endured and how much you still need to go further. She said by celebrating Women’s Day and Month there is also an opportunity to create more awareness about women’s issues.    Dr Carol Nkambule recently received an award for academic excellence during the ABM Sunrise Women Awards 2019. She is an author and publisher of Christian-based books. She is also a minister of the word of God.