 The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) weekly state of reservoirs report of August 12 shows that water levels in Mpumalanga continue to drop with only Klipkoppie Dam recording a slight 0.7 per cent increase from last week’s 38.0 per cent.  WATCH: Pride of lions gives intruding leopard another chance in the Kruger
According to the weekly report, the provincial average in terms of water in storage, water levels dropped from 68.2 per cent to 67.6 per cent and the water management areas also recorded declines in water volumes with the Olifants catchment dropping from 57.1 per cent to 56.5 per cent. Inkomati-Usuthu water management area dropped from 71.7 per cent to 71.1 per cent. Water levels in most of the listed dams are lower than what was recorded at the same time last year. In the Ehlanzeni District, all the listed dams except the Driekoppies Dam are below last year’s recorded volumes. Driekoppies, despite having higher quantities than last year 68 per cent, also recorded a drop from 72.2 per cent to 71.9 per cent. The report also shows that the Kwena Dam which is a strategic supplier to the capital city of Mbombela is steadily dropping towards the 50 per cent mark as it dropped from 52.1 per cent to 51.1 per cent over the week. Also read: India monsoon floods kill more than 200 In the Gert Sibande District, Vygeboom and Westoe are the only dams with higher volumes compared to last year even though they also recorded drops in water volumes over the week. Vygeboom Dam dropped from 96.6 per cent to 95.8 per cent but is still higher than last year’s 94.2 per cent and Westoe Dam dropped from 66.5 per cent to 66.1 per cent which is also higher than the 52.7 per cent than what was recorded last year. All the listed dams in the Nkangala District are below the volumes recorded last year even though they are all above 80 per cent. The Department of Water and Sanitation therefore encourages the public to use the available water sparingly and wisely and ensure that all water resources are pollution free and free-flowing to ensure access to the source of life for all. Every drop counts, so let us all play our part in water security as the water levels continue to drop.  