 SKUKUZA – It is time for government to put more effort into the war on illegal poaching and wildlife trade in South Africa. This is the view of the recently appointed minister of environment, forestry and fisheries, Barbara Creecy. She addressed guests during the World Ranger Day celebrations held at Kruger Gate on Wednesday. The celebrations at the ranger monument at Kruger Gate were opened by a ceremonial wreath laying, as well as messages of support by several dignitaries from Mpumalanga and Limpopo, the SAPS, SANDF and the Honorary Rangers. Minister Barbara Creecy, accompanied by SANPArks CEO Fundisile Mketeni (left) and KNP chief ranger Nicholus Funda, lay a wreath at the new rangers monument at Kruger Gate. In her keynote speech, Creecy said that better controls at ports of exit, more support on the ground, and faster prosecution of offenders are needed. Her department, as well as those in the security and justice cluster, should work together to achieve them. She promised to act promptly by convening a meeting with police minister Bheki Cele and justice minister Ronald Lamola as soon as possible to better coordinate their collective efforts. She recognised that rangers fighting the war on the ground need more support, through provision of adequate tools or reward and recognition, and asked SANParks CEO Fundisile Mketeni to put forward a proposal in this regard to her. Rangers on parade at Kruger Gate. She continued that with more than two million South Africans directly dependent on the country’s natural resources and environment for their income, its richness in biodiversity, ecosystem services and wealth of indigenous knowledge are a strategic asset for sustainable development. With the Kruger National Park (KNP) providing employment and economic growth opportunities to nearby communities, illegal poaching and the illicit wildlife trade continue to threaten both conservation and sustainable use efforts. ALSO WATCH: World Ranger Day commemorated at Kruger National Park “An important approach to protecting biodiversity and wildlife-associated crime in parks has to be the economic and social well-being of communities living adjacent to avoid them falling prey to syndicates recruiting foot soldiers for illegal activities,” she said. She promised that her department would transform the biodiversity economy. It is supporting several projects aimed at working with industry and conservation to ensure people benefit. Creecy mentioned a slight decrease in rhino poaching over the last three years. In 2018 rhino poaching had decreased, with 769 reported incidents and in the first six months of 2019, 318 rhino had been poached countrywide, a modest decline of 68 incidents over the same period last year. ALSO READ: Suspects remain in custody From January to June this year, 122 alleged poachers were also arrested within the KNP with 61 firearms being recovered during operations in the park in this period. Lastly she reminded everybody that the field rangers are in the midst of a battle for all plant and animals species and for any successes in the anti-poaching war, their commitment and dedication to wildlife protection should be honoured. Voices of the Wild, a choir consisting of workers in the KNP, entertain guests during the celebrations.