Crossing Centre is planning to make its 16th birthday unforgettable by giving back to the community which has made it its heart beat for the past 16 years. The centre has always made the community its first priority and is now planning to donate R500 000 to registered non-profit organisations across the Lowveld. Beneficiaries will be announced during its birthday celebrations on October 12.   As part of the celebrations, Crossing would like to challenge other local businesses to also donate money that will be given to charity. “We would like to be able to donate R1 million, if not more,” says McGarry. The centre has shown nothing but love for its loyal supporters and continues to value their opinions and contributions in community projects like this. That is why Crossing has chosen to let the community decide which deserving NPOs should receive a cut of the money. Help spread the love with Crossing Centre and make our community an even warmer caring place.      Ahead of these celebrations, the centre has also declared an ABF – absolute building final! This means that it has completed all upgrades and that no further construction is planned, besides ongoing maintenance as and when needed. Sixteen years ago, the area was a cricket field and hosted a local sports club. It has since been expanded to the current popular shopping destination of some 36 000m².  “Including our offices, Crossing is now home to 70 tenants. We are very proud to say that 80% of our first phase tenants are still at the centre after 16 years,” says centre manager, Anita McGarry. The centre now offers four entrances and exits, ” 75% of shoppers still use the main entrance” says McGarry ” but we’d like to take this opportunity to appeal to our shoppers to consider these alternative entrance and exit routes. The additional entrance and exit routes have been introduced to make it as convenient as possible for our shoppers to enjoy their experience at the centre. We feel blessed and humbled that the community has supported us to such an extent that we were able to expand as much as we have.”    