 Saving lives, treating the ill and working under strenuous conditions may be their daily work, but Lowveld medical professionals surprised one and all when they showcased their hidden arts and culture talent on Saturday. The city’s doctors, specialists, physiotherapists, dieticians and many other professionals were dressed to the nines for the first Busamed Lowveld Private Hospital and Lowveld Medical Art and Culture Society gala evening, hosted in aid of Pediatric Care Africa.    ALSO READ: Anderson Street, a one way to a dead end due to criminal activities The programme was a mix between a cook-off competition for hors d’oevres, musical items, renditions of personal stories and an entertaining food-and-wine pairing by the winemaker, Beyers Truter, from Beyerskloof Wines. Every part of the exquisite four-course meal prepared by GT Lundie and his team was complemented by a selection of Beyerskloof wines.    Guests were in awe with the talents displayed on the piano, flute, clarinet, French horn, guitar and song with definite favourites being a rendition of “All of Me” by John Legend, “Shallow” by Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper and “Liefde uit die Oude Doos” by Koos Kombuis.    Pediatric Care Africa, which was founded by Dr André Hattingh, provides lifesaving assistance and hope to less fortunate children in local communities throughout Africa, and the R52 500 which was generated with raffle tickets will go a long way to aid its work. A further R5 000 donation from Nedbank’s banking for professionals division, as well as a donation of 67 baby packs with an estimated value of R30 000, were made at the event.    Dr Diliza Mji, the CEO of Busamed, said the purpose of the event was to promote and support the welfare of children who needed medical treatment. Mji told the newspaper that children often need difficult surgery that sometimes parents cannot afford and that Busamed has helped in these situation through its network of hospitals. In his speech Mji said he did not quite understand when Busamed Lowveld Private Hospital chairman, Dr Attie van Wyk shared the concept of the evening with him. “I must confess I did not understand what he was talking about, yet the end result is brilliant.” ALSO READ: Farewell dinner for Neil Diamond Mji said it was a little like Busamed. “We always visualise before things happen. That’s how Busamed was born too. I was working as a doctor and general surgeon for 20 years. I said I do not like what I am going through in the hospitals that I was working at. “He had the vision while still practising as a surgeon and eight years later they have these seven beautiful hospitals in Cape Town, Johannesburg, Bloemfontein, Durban and Mbombela. “By this time next year we will have nine, because Lowveld is now giving birth to a bigger child down the road,” he explained.    Chairman van Wyk thanked everyone for the role they played in making the event a great success and said their planning committee was thrilled with the enthusiasm of their colleagues who participated with so much passion.
“I hope this evening will unleash all the hidden talent for next year’s event. Without the support and sponsors, such events do not happen,” he said. PHOTOS: