 Badplaas businessman Fred Daniel has two fewer legal battles on his plate, after liquidation and sequestration proceedings against him and his business, Mountain View Investments, were brought to a halt.
This followed after Daniel was able to settle the debt of R3,2 million he owed to Altfund. Lowvelder previously reported that the judgement debt emanated from a 2014 loan agreement between Mountain View Investments and Altfund. Daniel bound himself personally as surety for the payment obligations and initially failed to effect the payments as required in the agreement. As a result, interim orders for his personal sequestration and the liquidation of Mountain View Investments were issued by the Pretoria and Mpumalanga High Courts. ALSO READ: Local emergency rescue personnel in dramatic rescue after German tourist survives 40-metre fall On July 11, the court in Gauteng was to determine whether the order should be made final. Because Daniel had settled his debt, the interim order was set aside. The Mpumalanga case continued on Tuesday. Attorney Vernus Kruger confirmed that Daniel had settled his debt and that Altfund no longer sought his sequestration. This was confirmed by Sybrand Tintinger, attorney for Altfund, in correspondence with the newspaper. On Tuesday, local judge president Francis Legodi indicated that he would set aside the interim sequestration order if Daniel could confirm that he had no other creditors. In a sworn statement, Daniel did so under oath, and his provisional sequestration was set aside. ALSO READ: Breakthrough made in the early detection of floods
Litigation involving Daniel regularly makes the news. In 2018, he obtained a temporary protection from harassment order against Deputy President David Mabuza after claiming that Mabuza and the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) had been harassing him. Carolina Magistrate’s Court magistrate Sarel Grabe did not grant a final order against Mabuza, a decision Daniel wants to appeal. A controversial civil case involving Daniel has been placed on the Pretoria High Court roll for July 27 next year and is expected to continue for a month. Daniel will be one of 12 plaintiffs in a civil trial relating to alleged wrongdoing in land claim processes. There will be 25 defendants which include the MTPA, the South African Police commissioner, the national land claims commissioner and the minister of environmental affairs.