Shopping is now closer to home for all residents of White River, Sabie, Graskop, Hazyview and surrounds, as White River Crossing Centre opens. A first-of-its-kind in all of Mpumalanga, the state-of-the-art Checkers, Woolworths Food and Dischem outlets offer a shopping experience like no other.  With the brand-new long-awaited community centre featuring more than 30 stores, the centre will surely cater for most of any resident’s retail needs. And since it is so close to home, it will be much more convenient to spend some rand, too. No more travelling far for fantastic shopping. Residents and visitors can look forward to a brand-new Big Bear Spur, Pick n Pay Clothing, Rage, Pep, Mr Price Home, Capitec Bank and FNB.  For shoppers’ convenience, a Standard Bank and Nedbank ATM are also available. A wonderful Mugg & Bean, The Crazy Store, Salonique Hair Salon, Rock Paper Barbershop, Cell Touch Repair Centre, Pizza Perfect and Picasso’s takeaways complete the picture.  White River Crossing also offers great services such as a PostNet, Kodak and a Telkom shop. Those with a sweet tooth can try out the wide range at the Dairy Serve for delicious ice creams. A McDonald’s drive-through will open before the end of the year. The new White River Crossing shopping centre brings a truly world-class retail experience to residents across the Lowveld. The shopping centre will cater to both rich and poor consumers from across the region. It is also expected to attract a substantial number of shoppers from Mozambique, as well as international and local visitors, either en route to the Kruger Park or on their way home after their safari.   It was on the developers to attempt to create a retail experience that would appeal to the widest cross-section of people as possible – one of the prerequisites for attracting truly nationwide retailers and restaurants. They expressed the hope that the new White River Crossing will not only serve as a fantastic retail experience but as a lifestyle destination as well. “This is why we opted for a convenient C-shape layout with a restaurant section clustered around an open-air piazza, which will provide customers with an aesthetically pleasing social and recreational area.”     