 Despite deadlines, some of these opportunities only come around once, and thus I made a plan. The vehicles were the Jeep Rubicon, the Alfa Stelvio and of course, Brutus – the Alfa Giulia Quadrifoglio. So I have decided to spoil you with a short review of each one, in one article. How’s that for value? Not many, if any, SUVs in standard dress code represent the term “rugged” as much as does the Jeep Wrangler. Not even a Defender – although it comes close. The Jeep has probably accumulated more “undisputed off-road champion” awards than any other 4×4 vehicle on the market. Other than its technical and mechanical prowess, its new top combinations, offering open-air freedom, are simply to die for. ALSO READ: The best of old and new cars stands out at the Knysna Motor Show 2019 I drove the 3.6-litre V6 Pentastar Rubicon delivering 212 kW and 347 Nm. Now, 347Nm may not sound like a lot compared to some competitor products, but when one adds to this two four-wheel-drive systems, Command-Trac and Rock-Trac, featuring Select-Trac inclusive of electric front and rear-axle lockers, this vehicle becomes just about unstoppable.  The Rubicon also offers added articulation and suspension travel as a result of its electronic sway-bar disconnect capability. Add to this an approach angle of 36,4 degrees, breakover of 25,8 degrees and departure angle of 30,8 degrees, and the idea of going off-road simply moves into the next dimension. Now, I did not have time to go off-road, but covering the many off-road events in the Lowveld, I have, of course, seen first-hand what these Jeeps are capable of. The Rubicon’s interior is modern, functional and high quality, and will be able to withstand years of service. Connectivity, navigation, quality sound and comfortable seats, on par with the best in the business. My first thought on sitting down the driver seat: “Wow. Beautiful. Solid. Trustworthy and spacious. Let’s ride!” The 8-speed auto box is as smooth as they come and the power, although not earth-shattering, gets the Jeep up to the national index in no time.  I did find, though, that at the national index, and on bumpy roads, the Jeep does tend to fishtail a little. This may well unsettle the inexperienced driver, but then remember – on gravel, the national index is not the aim. I did, however, consult with my good friends at Project4WD on this issue. They admitted this being intrinsic of most Jeeps. However, there is a remedy. Adjustment of the suspension geometry resolves fishtailing 100 per cent. Fuel index? Well, this is something that Jeep owners do not talk about. It is what it is, so basta! Price: R900 000 plus. The Stelvio, with its signature Alfa front end, does not present one with an in-your-face wow. Be that as it may, it is often the most simplistic of forms and shapes that draw our attention, because of a deeper element. Perhaps it lies in the shapelessness of the Stelvio’s design. Alfa design is about smooth lines and soft romantic feminine edges. It is about what is beneath, the not-so-obvious. The quality of finish and fit. On-road prowess and superb road-holding and performance. It is about bottled-up passion and appreciation for simplistic beauty. I love the rear end. It offers a concentration of lines, but every single one is in synchronicity with the energy of the car. It presents understated masculinity and power, bordering on a racing enticement. The interior is spacious and understated with a facia that is driver-focused and informative, without being restrictive.  That driver seat, in combination with the feel when one grips the steering wheel, is an emotional experience in confidence. Really, it is like a homecoming! Even though I have not driven an Alfa in a long time, it reminded me of my much less sophisticated lime green Alfetta, with its twin Weber carburettors that we were just never able to sync properly. But for her time she was just the most beautiful thing ever! The 2.0T Q4 engine is linked to an 8-speed auto box and produces 206 kW and 400 Nm, offering a brisk 5,7 seconds from 0-100 km/h, superb road holding, corner stability and comfort, for an SUV in combination with truly sharp and precise steering. The Stelvio is also available as a Q4 Quadrifoglio derivative producing 375 kW. Part reason for the driving enjoyment of the Stelvio can be found in its perfect 50/50 weight distribution between the front and rear axles, of course contributing to its agility when one force-feeds the accelerator, while simultaneously throwing it into a corner which requires a mid-corner change of direction. I conclude on a practical note. The Stelvio’s accommodation of the driver’s itch is effortless! Price: Between R900 000 and R1,7 million Did I leave the best for last? Depending on your vehicle preference – I would say, not necessarily! When Ugo Sivocci won the Targa Florio in 1923, his four-leaf clover crossed the line before he did. Since then, the Quadrifoglio has become legendary for its performance and engineering. Its modern-day derivative has gained an intelligent soul, a chassis which ensures perfect agility around the tightest of corners, even at heart-stopping speeds.  Its heart is a six-cylinder BiTurbo petrol engine producing a whopping 375 kW and 600 Nm, which will propel you from 0-100 in 3,9 seconds. Fast and brutal enough to scare many a human heart. Yes, driving and pushing the limits with this car dictates the necessity of an almost reckless bravado! I would so have loved to take this car along the famous 22 between Sabie and Hazyview, but time did not allow for this and perhaps, it was a blessing in disguise. Boy, oh boy! I sat down, somewhat lower than I prefer, but then again, the driver-focused cockpit dictated so the moment I entered the car. The ergonomic and practical layout has by now, after the drive with the Stelvio, brought back some familiarity. A quick look around the cabin focused my attention on the DNA dial near the gear shift to my left. I decided to skip all formalities and set it to RACE. I checked the fuel gauge – it was certainly not going to allow me to go far. But then, if I do it quickly, I will not miss the thrill and the bark of the Quadrifoglio. I did just that. It barked – it pulled like a freight train with a jet engine – it pushed my adrenalin levels to where it started to chase my blood pressure and then, well – then I had to slowly drive it back to the dealer while trying the other three DNA modes. Not the way to start or finish a Monday – or perhaps, exactly the way to do it? Everything I said about the Stelvio design also applies to the Giulia. The latter is a sports sedan unlike any other. It offers space and comfort, although on a stiffer and lower suspension setup.  The steering is utterly precise and direct and not designed for nervous or faint-hearted drivers. Both the Giulia and the Stelvio are kitted to the brim with technology, safety and luxury features that will satisfy even the most demanding. Here is the thing though – if you are not a driver of cars, do not buy it. Because, to not drive these cars, at least more often than not, will be an absolute insult, and neither of these cars deserves to be insulted. Price: About R1,5 million Please note: All the pictures are of left-hand drive derivatives. The manufacturer does not have right-hand drive pictures, and because of time constraints, I did not shoot pictures of the test vehicles. ALSO READ:Get revved up for the Autodealer Motor Show 2019