 MBOMBELA – Kotze was severely assaulted on July 7, after which he was treated in the Intensive Care Unit at Mediclinic Nelspruit. He was moved to Johannesburg last week Monday. An autopsy will be performed to determine the cause of death. The reward for any information which could lead to the successful prosecution of the person who contributed to Kotze’s unfortunate death, has been upped to R25 000. ALSO READ : Beweerde pedofiel terug in die hof This was announced by Albert Gryvenstein from Bossies Community Justice (BCJ). “We appeal to all eyewitnesses with reliable information regarding the state of events which unfolded on that faithful night, to come forward.” Hours later another good Samaritan, Waldo Boshoff, advised BCJ on Facebook to contact him for an additional R10 0000 contribution to the reward already issued. The police spokesman Capt Zandile Gqawa confirmed that the charge of attempted murder will be changed to murder. She confirmed that WO Jerry Mamba, who is part of Lt Col Erhard Ströh’s team, will be the investigating officer. “Kotze’s autopsy will be held as soon as possible in Johannesburg to obtain further evidence for the trial court.” ALSO READ : Reward in Zander Kotze case lifted to R25 000 In murder cases a causal effect, or condicio sine qua non, is necessary to determine if a certain act was the material cause of death, without which death would not have occurred. Kotze died after the principal act of assault was committed and therefore the cause of his death needs to be confirmed. Lowvelder reached out to Pietman Lourens, family attorney and spokesman, who did not provide comment on the tragic untimely death of Zander. He did, however, declare they now await the autopsy report. ALSO READ : Nellies se redenaars presteer nasionaal Morné van Rooyen, who has since been arrested for attempted murder, will appear in court again on September 9 on a charge of murder, according to Gqawa. Confirmation was received from the police that Stephen Earle had opened an attempted murder case against Kotze, and Van Rooyen had opened an assault case against Mienkie Kotze, Zander’s wife. Heartfelt messages from the community dominated Facebook after Kotze’s death was announced. ALSO READ : Vodacom tackles theft at base stations “It is terrible what happened; thought that it only happens at rugby clubs, but at a golf course? It is supposed to be a gentleman’s game. Only cowards assault a man into a coma. I hope that the law will take its full course. Rest in peace, Zander, no one can hurt you anymore,” Susan du Toit said sympathetically. Any person with information should contact Lt Col Erhard Ströh on 082-464-5721 or Albert Gryvenstein on 082-567-5212.