Both the Hinterland name and the local branch celebrated their sixth birthday recently with a celebratory festival.  “Instead of having a birthday party, we decided to have a commemoration festival,” explained Hinterland Nelspruit manager, Leon van Rooyen. “We had a festival last year as well and when the customers asked me about it, I decided to do it again”. He was very excited to introduce his loyal customers directly to the suppliers. Buyers had the opportunity to negotiate with them and learn more about their products. Working on Fire (WoF) and the Lowveld and Escarpment Fire Protection Association (Lefpa) had an amazing demonstration in which they simulated a fire with smoke bombs and the team extinguished it on site.  Other stalls included Protek, Efekto, Ruggedwear, CO Tanks and Molatek, which were just as eager as Van Rooyen to share their knowledge with customers. The latter’s representative, Pieter Smit, said that they have had a good relationship with Hinterland for years. The Mbombela branch is making strides in bridging the gap between the agricultural and non-agricultural consumer by offering a host of services and products to both markets. André Erasmus is the new store manager with a solid 17 years’ experience. He described Hinterland as an “all-in-one solution which provides anything from clothing to cleaning materials for guest houses as well as household gardening equipment”. He continued, “It is not just a shop for farmers like the co-ops of old. We deliver the best service and are open from 07:30, as farmers rise early. Our prices are competitive and the specials we offer unmissable.” Carol Badenhorst’s appointment as administration manager at the branch has added a buzz to Hinterland Nelspruit, and the connection between staff and customers is evident through the positive interactions. Lucky Mlombo has a wealth of experience behind him. The Hinterland irrigation specialist said that he owed this to staying abreast of new developments in irrigation systems. This helps ensure that his shelves are stocked with only the latest and best equipment to suit agricultural and non-agricultural customers’ needs. “We make sure that we stock equipment that not only meets the needs of our agricultural clients, but households as well. Sitting down with the customers who walk through our doors and chatting with them helps identify exactly what type of irrigation system they need.” Visit Hinterland at their premises: Wilberrystreet 5, Extension 22, Riverside Nelspruit.     