 Engine designers were struggling to make anything bigger than 500cc without introducing high levels of vibration. Triumph, through the genius of engine designer Edward Turner, came up with an elegant solution. One that would pave the way for the Bonneville Twins as we know them today. He simply put two smaller capacity engines next to each other.  The result was not only a smoother engine, but it made the 1938 Triumph Speed Twin an instant hit. To further save on costs, Triumph borrowed many of the parts of the Speed Twin from other models. In 2019, Triumph still employs the same policy. ALSO READ:The mother of biking in the Lowveld The introduction of the 2019 Speed Twin is case in point. Pricewise, the Speed Twin sits lower than the range-topping Thruxton R and looks like a sportier version of the T120. Styling is just classic Bonneville. There is a round headlight sitting below two analogue instrument clusters. The dials may look dated, but they have a modern touch. Each one has a small LCD screen that displays a fair amount of vital information.  Two rubber gators cover the front shocks. The bike is fitted with bar-end mirrors, which fit the style of the Speed Twin. The engine is designed with fins to make it look like an air-cooled unit, but it is, in fact, liquid-cooled, with the radiator almost invisibly integrated into the design. The bike has a ride-by-wire throttle that does away with unsightly cables. Like all Bonnevilles, the attention to detail is staggering. Up to this point I could have been describing any other Bonneville, but from the seat backward the whole design deviates from the norm.  The rear of the bike has a minimalistic design which might not be to everyone’s liking. It may look too modern on a bike with such an iconic name. I love it, though! The whole bike looks like it is leaning forward, and that leaves a fairly large gap between the rear wheel and the abbreviated rear mudguard. It gives the bike an aggressive and sporty stance. The seat has white accent stitching and is flat and wide. It provides adequate support, but if you are of a shorter disposition, it may be a tad wide. The 1200cc HP (High Power) engine is borrowed from the Thruxton and it delivers 96hp at 6750 rpm.  The impressive torque figure of 112Nm at 4950 rpm is what makes this bike. With a dry weight of 196kg you have to prepare yourself if you are going to ride the Twin aggressively. It is certainly not blessed with a high top speed, but because there is no wind protection, the sense of speed is amplified. The short stubby exhausts deliver a crisp growl, unmistakably a parallel twin. The suspension is not the Öhlins units from the Thruxton, but they provide enough feedback to inspire confidence. It has stonking good Brembo brakes that can bring the Speed Twin to a stop in no time at all.  The bike feels nimble and can change direction crisply and reassuringly. You can also hustle it through corners, as this bike comes standard with the Pirelli Rosso tires which are particularly grippy. There are three rider modes at your disposal too (Rain, Road and Sport), each altering the throttle map as well as the level of intervention from the ABS and traction control. The Speed Twin is a phenomenal bike that I really enjoyed riding. It makes you feel like a kid again, so if your budget stretches to the Thruxton or you are looking for an upgrade from your Street Twin, the Speed Twin will do a good job of making you smile! ALSO READ: A riding family and their beloved bikes