 MBOMBELA – Curro Castle has been rocked by allegations of rape after the parents of an 18-month-old toddler opened
a rape case at Nelspruit Police Station. According to the Nelspruit police spokeswoman, Capt Zandile Gqawa, the child’s parents allegedly noticed a red stain on her nappy after collecting her from the school last week Friday at approximately 14:45. “The father prepared to bath the child and he took off her diaper. He noticed a red stain on the child’s diaper and he called the mother to have a look. They then decided to take the child to the doctor and the doctor concluded that the child might have been raped.”
Gqawa added that no arrests have been made and that the case was transferred to the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit. ALSO READ: Local man survives hijacking and kidnapping ordeal Capt Zandile Gqawa. In a statement released by the Curro communications and marketing head, Mari Lategan, the school called for the matter to be treated with sensitivity, as it involved a minor. “Curro has become aware of speculation within the community regarding two separate and unrelated incidents which were recently brought to our attention.” The statement details another incident which involved a pupil at the school.
Lowvelder is in possession of a copy of the letter issued to a teacher who allegedly witnessed a colleague administering corporal punishment to a pupil. ALSO READ: Four days of carnage as 11 people die in and around Mbombela

The second teacher was charged with derivative misconduct and reads: “You witnessed a fellow employee administer a form of corporal punishment or assault, by allegedly hitting a learner with a plastic or cardboard item on a Group 2 learner on the 1st August 2019, on or about 11:45 and failed to stop or prevent a colleague from doing so and failed to inform management of the incident.” According to Lategan, all footage relating to the allegation has been viewed and no wrongdoing was identified. “SAPS have become involved and, as per our policies and procedures, we are cooperating fully with the authorities. A thorough investigation is being conducted internally and externally.” The statement continued to say a teacher’s assistant from the Castle has been suspended pending an internal investigation. “Curro and SAPS must be given the time to do their jobs thoroughly without undue interference. “Speculation and conjecture are ultimately painful and add to the difficulty experienced by those affected.”