 BARBERTON –The competition, which it’s opened for high school and university learners including offenders, will be held in George from September 23 to 27. According to Mesiah Hlungwani, DCS spokesman, the DCS in partnership with National Library of South Africa (NLSA) and the National Department of Sports, Arts and Culture host the reading competition. He said its aims are to promote the culture of reading amongst offenders and youth. This year, seven offenders from the Barberton DCS are set to participate in this competition. They will be competing with offenders from other provinces and students from different high schools and universities across the country,” explained Hlungwani. He said the seven offenders were identified by a panel of independent adjudicators during the regional FMC, which was held at Bethal Correctional Services. Read More: Correctional services appoints acting area commissioner The regional competition was attended by participants from Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West region. The competition is comprised of different categories which include reading, spelling, book review and debate. Participants will be expected to read passages randomly selected by the adjudicators where they will be assessed pronunciation, eloquence, expression and confidence. They will compete with their counterparts in SiSwati, IsiZulu, English and Afrikaans. One of the offenders that will be a participant is Ludicks Godfrey, who is serving 25 years for murder at Barberton Medium B. He appreciated the opportunity given to him by the department. I was not into reading, but since joining the local book club I have read countless books. This helps me to understand the outside community and to find better way to approach challenges,” he said. Barberton DCS has book clubs where offenders regularly meet to discuss and review books. The club focuses on books written in English and other indigenous languages. Also Read: Warden is arrested for alleged drug possession The deputy acting regional commissioner for Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West, Takalane Mashamba encouraged offenders to continue participating on book clubs as it plays a critical role when it comes to rehabilitation. He said a reading nation is an informed nation, therefore if offenders continue to read they will get lot of knowledge. The department is serious about the issue of eradicating illiteracy. We want to make sure that everyone must know how to read and to write before they could leave our centre. You cannot come here and go back to the society being the same. We hope that the selected team will scoop awards in all categories. I will make sure that I send a truck to carry the trophies, do not disappoint,” Mashamba said