 BARBERTON – According to Pretty Hlatshwayo, who has been renting the house from her aunt, Dorothy Ndashe, for the past three years, the cause of the fire is unknown at this stage. Hlatshwayo, who works at Low’s Creek Community Clinic, said she was just returning from work at around 16:50 when a neighbour alerted her that there was smoke billowing from the house. Read More: Girl left with nothing after rape and mother’s murder “I immediately rushed inside the house and went to a room where one of my boys was sleeping. The door was locked and I woke him. He threw the keys out of the window and I managed to open the door and pull him out,” said Hlatshwayo. Inside the house. She said inside the house, smoke was coming from the ceiling. People were scrambling around outside while they waited for the fire department to arrive. They were reportedly called at 16:55 and arrived at 18:10. Hlatshwayo said they only manage to salvage two fridges and one bed.  “When we went to the main bedroom to try and salvage more items, the ceiling collapsed and the fire spread all over the house. All three bedrooms were engulfed in fire and we could not manage to save anything,” added Hlatshwayo. The fire ravaged everything the family owned and they had no insurance. Also Read: UPDATE: Cub of leopard that killed toddler, also shot “We lost everything,” Hlatshwayo said. “Clothes, my children’s books, IDs, passports, everything,” she said. Hlatshwayo shares the house with her two sons, Percy (12) and Christian (6), and her sister’s daughter, Landile (11).  Ndashe had allowed her to use the house as she has just started to work. Percy is in grade five at Mountainview Combined School and Christian is in grade R at Amon Primary School. Landile is a grade six at Mhola Primary School. Donations of clothing, furniture, food, appliances or cash will help the family slowly piece their life back together. Community members who are keen to help this family as they start the journey of rebuilding their lives may contact Hlatshwayo on 072-513-8701 to make a donation.