 Motorsport in particular also offers a level playing field, in which males and females compete as equals against one another across all the different classes or categories of motor racing. Hanneke Brits, a grade nine learner at Hoërskool Nelspruit, grew up in a family where racing and the love of vroom-vroom are part and parcel of their DNA.  Her uncle Hennie Jnr races. Her grandfather Hennie Snr is acknowledged for his prowess around an oval track and in powerful race cars and although he does not race anymore, he is Hanneke’s biggest supporter and pit chief. So of course it was inevitable that she would continue the tradition. She started racing in 2017, although the love was born back in 1990 while Oupa was still racing.  “In August 2017 we heard about a go-kart for sale. It required a roll cage and then some, but we bought it and this is where it all started. It was fitted with a 200cc engine. ALSO READ: Vroom, vroom… Lowvelders, we’re off to the races Not long after this, though, it became necessary to lengthen the chassis. at the time we also adjusted the accelerator, which enabled me to go much faster than before. “This was when I really started to enjoy the go-kart – it was quicker and allowed some drifting around the corners. Of course, I was winning races and trophies,” said Hanneke.  In the first year of racing she finished third overall in the go-kart class. In the second year she finished in top spot and with the most wins for the year. Eventually it was time to go big or go home. Hanneke was growing up and she needed to race with a real car. They swopped the go-kart for a little Corsa hatch and she has already competed in four events – and boasts three wins. Changing from racing a go-kart to racing a real car required a major effort.  On the go-kart all the controls were on the steering. “In the car, I have to use my feet. The go-karts raced anticlockwise, while the cars go clockwise and of course the Corsa is front-wheel drive. So the changeover was quite a challenge, but Uncle Nic de Witt helped me with the adjustments and I am now going quite fast. The brake points and cornering dynamics are different.”And then she talks about how she stripped the Corsa just after they got it and how other dealers have volunteered to sponsor some of the work and/or parts to get it ready and prepared for the track. “Racing with other ladies is often scary, as they are not as experienced as I am. I am never sure as to what they will or will not do. So the first couple of laps are slower as I work my way through the traffic to finish in first place.”I want to also race on other tracks, and look forward to racing in Ermelo where they are currently building a track with a longer straight. My dream, though, is to eventually race V8 Sprints.” These, however, are extremely powerful and brutally quick in acceleration. “It will happen – it is just a matter of time,” she chirped. “In the meantime, should I continue winning, I may get an opportunity to race in the Rebel class, but Oupa is still hesitant for me to go that route. My Corsa is front-wheel drive, while the Rebels are rear-wheel drive, which will dictate a change in driving style”. What does Mom have to say about all of this? “Yes, I am obviously nervous when she races, but I still support her nevertheless, and hope that she will achieve her dreams,” said Hannelie.” I would like to thank Leocron, Uncles Tom Ritson and Fanie of Neltrek for supporting me with my racing,” Hanneke added. Her racing philosophy: “Sometimes you win some, sometimes you lose some, but you always have to keep your head in the game.” And with this I conclude, believing that she will achieve that dream of racing V8 Sprints and that she will see her name on billboards at racing events and tracks all over the world. ALSO READ: Racers kick up dust at Nelspruit Oval Track