 However, a group of locals who dubbed themselves the Lowveld Walkers managed to conquer all this. The walkers started their journey from Pretoria on July 1. They did this in the name of the late South African president, Nelson Mandela, for Mandela Day, celebrated on July 18. According to Joseph Mashaba, the founder of the Lowveld Walkers and initiator of the walk, this year’s walk was themed “Walk for Madiba and Education”.  He said it was aimed at raising R320 000 to cater for the enrolment and tuition fees of six grade 12 learners for their first years in tertiary institutions next year. After walking from Pretoria to Mbombela in 10 days, the walkers so far managed to raise one tenth – R32 000. In acknowledging Madiba as a leader who was keen on education, the walkers had this year decided to use that as an invitation to all South Africans to sponsor the education of six underprivileged grade 12 learners, who are performing exceptionally in their schooling. These six learners were picked from the towns in which the walkers made stops on their way to Mbombela,” explained Mashaba. He said this year’s Long Walk to Fitness was their second one, after the one last year when they walked from Johannesburg to Mbombela. Read More: VIDEO: Lowveld Walkers welcomed back in Mbombela This year, 67 walkers walked daily for 10 days. They walked from 06:00 to 11:00 every day. They took a mini break and resume again at 13:45 until 18:00. The walkers were joined by 18 backroom staff. Young and old joined in, with the youngest walker being 13 years old and the oldest a 69-year-old woman.  Mashaba said it was through God that they survived having to walk on the different parts, routes and locations of the country. “The funny and heart-warming part was seeing people stopping their vehicles just to hug us or give us fruit and water or cash. They even took selfies with us. The scary part was seeing a walker injured and crying.” The Lowveld Walkers is a non-profit organisation solely focused on promoting a healthy lifestyle by encouraging people to walk for fun and as a form of entertainment. The organisation was founded by Mashaba from Matsulu in January 2018. Also Read: One local’s drive inspires many to hit the road They stage walks every Saturday in different parts of the Lovweld region and have attracted thousands of people. Asked as to how he started the organisation, Mashaba said he had wanted to lose weight. He was soon joined by others also wanting to slim down and get fit. Besides the health benefits and having others to encourage you to keep moving, the walks also promote a healthy lifestyle and create awareness of obesity and fitness among the communities we pass through.” The Lowveld Walkers meet once a week (early on a Saturday or Sunday) and complete various distances between towns and landmarks. With almost every walk they have between 200 and 500 walkers from different areas of the Lowveld. During these walks, the group is accompanied by traffic officials who ensure its safety. To join the group or for enquiries, contact Mashaba on 076-444-2343 or joseph. mashaba@gmail.com. The benefits of walking: • It helps one to lose weight and increases metabolism • Walking will increase your self-esteem • Walking tones one’s muscles and improves self-image as well as energy • Walking reduces the risk of high blood pressure • It gives one a healthier heart and strengthens bones and joints • It helps with mental health • Walking relieves stress and depression. The Lowveld Walkers’ schedule for August is as follows • August 3: KaMagugu/University of Mpumalanga/Kiaat Hospital and back to KaMagugu • August 10: Pienaar/Lekazi • August 17: Msholozi • August 24: Barberton • August 30: Mbombela.