 MBOMBELA – The Myburghs sat in court, gut-wrenching sorrow written all over their faces, as judgment was delivered on the assailants. The judge stressed that in handing down a sentence, the punishment must fit the criminal as well as the crime, and be blended with a measure of mercy according to the circumstances. According to the National Prosecuting Authority spokesman, Monica Nyuswa, the state pathologist testified that Annatjie did not die of a heart attack as initially thought. She had been strangled to death. Police discovered her body in the bush near the Kruger National Park early on June 18, 2016, after she had been missing for three days. ALSO READ : Beweerde pedofiel terug in die hof More than three years later and the grief was still tangible. Speaking outside the court to Lowvelder at the pre-sentencing hearing, Wendell Myburgh Jr confided that their religion keeps them grounded, but he personally advocates the Old Testament’s version of an “eye for an eye” and a “tooth for a tooth” when it comes to forgiveness. On the day of sentencing, both Wendell Jr and Sr expressed their stance on the sentences imposed. Both felt that the criminals had received the maximum sentence our law can administer, for which they are thankful, but that it is not a harsh enough sentence to instil a feeling of retribution. ALSO READ : Guilty verdict brings justice for Annatjie Myburgh “In the pre-sentence report compiled by the probation officer, the convicted murderer described prison as a vacation,” Wendell Sr said. He described Annatjie, his wife of 37 years, as central to his life. He lost his sense of being and it is not something which can heal. Wendell Jr and Marlise Rossouw, his sister, believe that their mother was taken away too early in their lives. “It is one thing to lose someone due to natural causes, but the loss of an irreplaceable loved one due to criminal activity is different,” Wendell Jr uttered regretfully.  “My son is fortunate enough to have met his grandmother, but his entitlement to be spoiled by one more grandmother has been taken from him,” he stated. State Adv Cornelia Harmzen, recounted what she had read. “Pain and suffering scream from the documentation,” she said in court. The letter read as follows: “Every time I put something in my mouth to eat or to drink I choke on it, because I don’t know if my loved one had the same opportunity to eat or drink on that fateful night.”