 Classic car aficionados across the land are busy preening their steeds in anticipation of this world-class contest. A class win at Concours South Africa, this highly-regarded competition judged to the best international concours standard, adds real (rand and dollar!) value to winning entries. Not bringing your own collectable car? Well, there is still time for those wishing to attend as VIP guests to book their place. Reflecting the event’s top-drawer credentials, a bespoke range of hospitality packages are available for the duration of the classic weekend extravaganza. ALSO READ:Triumph Speed Twin doubles the fun These range from branded corporate pavilions, for up to 100 daily VIP guests, through to tailored individual day passes. Special features at this year’s event include the induction into the South African Hall of Fame of Basil Green and Graham Duxbury. Green, of course, is known for his work with the Ford Capri Perana, and Duxbury, as well as being one of South Africa’s best known motorsports commentators, also won the Famed Daytona 24-hour race in the USA. In addition, there will be a display of significant South African race cars, including Tony Viana’s Winfield BMWs, and Jody Scheckter’s Group 5 Zakspeed Ford Escort, to name a few. Cars made only in South Africa, like the Ford Capri Perana, 333 BMW and Alfa GTV6, will also have their own display. Concours South Africa are proud to announce the participation of the Daytona Group who will have some very special cars on display, including a McLaren Senna, five Rolls Royces – spanning 70 years of the marque, a superb selection from Aston Martin and a very, very special automobile from the spectacular Italian manufacturer, Pagani. Concours South Africa has it all this year; bespoke hospitality, the best dressed competition, the lady’s day on Sunday September 1 – with a prize for best dressed, and a myriad of sensational cars, all taking place on the exquisite lawns of the Steyn City Parkland residence, just north of Fourways, Johannesburg. ALSO READ:Three fantastic cars from FCA