 BARBERTON – At the foothills of the mountain in Judge Street lies a hidden gem. The Genesis Restaurant first opened its doors earlier this year and is already drawing community members to the eatery. Owner Athol Smith said that the business was started to give the waning local tourist industry a boost. “I was hoping to expand my business along a social intervention basis, to add something unique to the tourism scene in Barberton. The area is undergoing a bit of a decline in terms of the local economy, so we aim to keep prices affordable, while creating jobs as well.” Shani Strümpher, Franco Mills, Johann Strümpher, Frank Mills, Jaundré Mills and Tammy Mills. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Show Programme 2019

Smith is joined in this venture by manager Thomas Rankin, who boasts 16 years’ experience in the restaurant business. Rankin added, “We continue striving to add more innovative dishes without affecting the fare we already have on offer. This includes our popular plankies, steaks and pizzas. We have already included a deli and will expand to create craft beers which locals can sample.” The rustic, old world charm is drawing Barbertonians to the establishment in their numbers. A visit to the Genesis Restaurant last week Wednesday saw locals gathered at the eatery, which was decorated for a game of rugby. Hermien and Norman Hartman. ALSO READ: WATCH: Another Burger Bust takes place

The wood-fired ovens were sizzling with the generous portions of meat on the coals, and the children who accompanied their parents made full use of the opportunity to scale the jungle gym, while their parents enjoyed a night of rugby and lip-smacking food. Smith continued, “This has always been my passion, to create an atmosphere of community. I enjoy seeing the satisfied looks on the customers’ faces as they tuck into the plankies or the other fare on the menu. “Barberton has long been in desperate need of something different to bring us together as a community. I saw the opportunity and want to grow the business from strength to strength with the townspeople.” Harry Sibiya. ALSO READ: Photo gallery – Barberton crush Ratels

Athol and Rankin hope to continue adding more to the restaurant to attract Barbertonians of all ages to experience the bonhomie of getting to know each other over a plate of traditional cuisine.