 MBOMBELA –Lowvelder spoke to three prominent business owners, who said the area, once considered the jewel of the business community, has become so infested with crime that it scares customers away. They were even too afraid to have their names mentioned. ALSO READ : SAPS chase injures suspect On August 14, a group of 27 business stakeholders sent an email petition to the Nelspruit Police Station, which demanded swift action against the criminal activities plaguing them. Albert Gryvenstein of Bossies Community Justice stated that not all the business owners want change to happen in the street notorious for its lawlessness. ALSO READ : A visionary artisan of spray paint and airbrush “There is speculation that some of these owners have their hands in the proverbial cookie jar and may even be aiding and abetting these criminals.” It is known in certain circles as “Little Lagos”, because it is alleged that Nigerian syndicates might be behind most of the crime in the area. They make their livelihoods out of drug dealings and prostitution.    Police spokesman, Capt Zandile Gqawa, confirmed that Ngobeni had received the memorandum of complaints. He will interact with the relevant stakeholders in order to reach a permanent solution. “The station will continue their daily disruptive operations in the crime hotspot areas,” Gqawa said. The exact nature of these operations were not disclosed to Lowvelder. ALSO READ : Pediatric Care Africa pays a visit to Magalela Stabbings and mugging of customers who frequent the stores in the street has had an immense impact on the commercial activities of these retailers. The business owners told Lowvelder that there were two or sometimes three gangs who operate in the area. Out of fear for their lives, none of them try to chase off the drug dealers and criminal gangs as they roam the streets in packs of six or seven, and do not hesitate to beat up anyone who interfere with their criminal practices. ALSO READ : Will the real Roof of Africa please stand up? According to them one can find anything from heroin, nyaope and mandrax to dagga at any given time. In a wild accusation, they claimed that corrupt police officials take bribes from these thugs, and in return provide them with prior information about impending raids, and release drug pedlars when arrested. Ngobeni urged the community to provide police officials with credible information, in strict confidentiality, on the toll-free number on 08600-10111, or report it directly to him.