 Women discovered their purpose and potential in the kingdom of God at the CRC #SHE Nelspruit women conference last Friday night. This is an annual event by CRC held under the leadership of senior pastor Nyretta Boshoff-Gibbons. This year the guest speaker was the well-known Past Pushie Watson with Past Hennie van der Merwe and Elizna van der Merwe acting as hosts.   Past Wilna Vermaak from CRC George had to step in as a guest speaker since Elizna was not feeling well.The theme was “My Story, His Glory”. ALSO WATCH:  Past Pushie Watson at the CRC #SHE conference Watson was born again in 1995 at Rhema Church South Africa and was first introduced to the public as a television presenter in 1997. In 2003, she surrendered to the call of God on her life and began serving in the ministry as a volunteer in the television department and later in the women’s ministry. In 2006 she attended Bible school and graduated from Rhema Bible Training Centre as top academic achiever two years in a row. In 2010 she became head of the women’s ministry at Rhema Bible Church, hosting monthly meetings of over 1 000 women as well as an annual conference. She has since gone on to become an itinerant minister, travelling and preaching the gospel. She was ordained as a pastor in 2012. During the conference she shared her journey and the difficulties she went through when her previous marriage ended. “The first day I had to go out without my ring it was not easy,” she said. Her focus was on the book of Ruth in the Bible, which tells the story about Naomi who lost so much in her life and she went as far as asking everyone to stop calling her by her name. ALSO WATCH: The African Explosion at Lowveld High School She encouraged women to remember that even when they are going through challenges, they must remember who they are. Watson also preached in both the CRC Mbombela and CRC White River campuses on Sunday morning with a powerful message titled “Deep Wells.”    On the evening the church raised funds for their CRC Cares project by cooking and selling food from the #SHE Recipe Book. Local celebrity chef Pieter Malan from kykNET’s Kokkedoor was part of the team that facilitated this recipe book that was given as a gift this year at the #SHE conferences locally and internationally to all the women. There was also an online cooking competition and the winner was announced that evening by Malan. Hennie and Elizna would like to thank the 800-plus women in attendance for making this a conference to remember. 