 MBOMBELA – The time has come for the younger generation to take up the baton in protecting the natural fauna and flora of South Africa. This was the message delivered by John Richardson of the Lowveld branch of the Wildlife and Evironment Society of South Africa (Wessa) during a talk held at Penryn College last Wednesday. To illustrate the point, renowned conservationist, Damien Mander was the keynote speaker. His talk on “Akashinga” (“the brave ones” in Shona) detailed his all-female conservation programme in Zimbabwe where he introduced local African women into the workforce through the use of wildlife ranger training. Damien Mander. ALSO READ: Local emergency rescue personnel in dramatic rescue after German tourist survives 40-metre fall He detailed the groundbreaking work which went into involving local communities in conservation, as well as the conflict he faced in creating awareness about the importance of preserving wildlife and setting up anti-poaching units in that country. The unassuming Mander detailed his colourful past as an adventure-seeking youth who joined the Royal Australian Navy at just 19 years old in 1999. Following this, his selection to the Tactical Assault Group (East) which specialised in direct-action and hostage-recovery in the Australian Army’s Special Forces 2nd Commando Regiment as a special operations sniper. He also worked with a number of private military organisations tasked with the protection of Australian diplomats and the training of Iraqi police. Leo and Maria Mander. ALSO READ: WATCH: Wildebeest helps injured opponent

After a stint in Iraq, he left the country, opting instead to plough his savings into anti-poaching efforts in Zimbabwe before being denounced as a spy while on a trip to Dubai. He has not returned to Zimbabwe since the allegations were levelled against him, choosing to continue his conservation efforts in South Africa and neighbouring countries instead. Richardson wants to include the youth in Wessa Lowveld’s programme. “The objectives is to bring some more energy and a different voice to conservation in the Lowveld. We are still Wessa Lowveld but just trying to bring a younger feel to things,” he said. WESSA chairman, Ricky Potts. ALSO READ: WATCH: The countdown to the Mpumalanga Show 2019 “One of the things we are trying to achieve is to increase our number of members. This will help us stand with a greater voice in this region, keep more of you updated on what is happening in conservation in the Lowveld and lastly, this will help fund projects.” To sign up to Wessa is quite simple and includes a number of benefits for the youth. To become a member, click on the link, visit wessalife.org.za and follow the instructions to complete the process. Benefits to joining include a number of options as well as an electronic or print copy of African Wildlife magazine