 It covers roughly six square kilometers in north-western Italy, located halfway between Turin and Milan in the countryside near Vercelli. Opened in 1962 by Alfa Romeo, over the years the centre has continued to grow, both in terms of test tracks and facilities. The original project included a main track, the current Misto Alfa Romeo, which was inspired by circuits used in the Formula 1 World Championship. It incorporates replicas of the main curve from the Monza circuit – known today as the Biassono curve – as well as the first of Monza’s two Lesmo curves, and the Hugenholtzbocht hairpin from the Zandvoort Circuit in Holland. ALSO READ:Three fantastic cars from FCA In the past, testing of production models, for which the track had been specifically designed, took place in parallel with the activities of Autodelta, the Alfa Romeo racing department. In fact, numerous Alfa Romeo race cars were developed at Balocco, which then went on to triumph at some of the most prestigious international circuits. Today the centre boasts a total of 26 different tracks, measuring 80 kilometres in length, with more than 50 different kinds of surfacing. In addition to the Misto Alfa Romeo, all the tracks necessary for complete vehicle development, from high-speed to off-road to low-grip, are here. There are many various types of climate cells, water crossings, workshops, warehouses, eight fuel pumps and multiple car washes. The fully-equipped facilities and personnel at the Balocco Proving Ground are operational 24 hours a day conducting some 200 000 hours of tests every year. The significant added value of a fully-equipped centre such as Balocco is its ability to condense the equivalent of 10 years of a vehicle’s life, in terms of, for example, wear and tear on brakes, suspensions and mechanical parts, into just five months of measured tests and simulations. In addition to reliability and durability testing, Balocco is used, above all, for development of new projects when testing moves from 3D computer designs to physical prototypes. Technical solutions are then analyzed and evaluated, vehicle systems are fine-tuned, performance is measured, and comparison tests and bench marking activities are carried out. Balocco is also a prestigious venue for driving courses, vehicle reveals and international events. ALSO READ:Triumph Speed Twin doubles the fun