 BARBERTON -Hlongwane escaped from Barberton Medium A Correctional Centre last Thursday shortly after 05:15. Mesiah Hlungwani, DCS spokesman, said Hlongwane was a re-offender. “Hlongwane was convicted in February 2008 for possession of fire-arm and ammunition and attempted murder.
He was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment. On these offenses the offender was released on parole in 2013. While on parole, he committed another crime of murder and he was sentenced to 12 years imprisonment. During his escape, he was serving the
sentence of murder, possession of ammunition and attempted murder. He was expected to be eligible for parole in 2029,” explained Hlungwani. Read More: Fruits of smuggling into prison curbed He said the preliminary report indicate that the Hlongwane marched out of Barberton Medium A Correctional Centre with other offenders at around 5:15 and reach the prison bakery at 5:30. Upon arrival at the bakery, Offenders went to the change room to wear the uniform of bakery and this is where he managed to escape. Fellow offenders informed officials about the incident but Hlongwane manage to make his way out and vanish into the nearest bushes,” continued Hlungwani. He said the information gathered at the scene indicate that the incident took place while guards were in the bakery office. Also Read:  Oldest inmate to write matric raises the bar He said Hlongwane jumped over the bakery court wall to escape. “The DCS has launched investigation to establish if the escape was a result of dereliction of duty or negligence by officials who were on duty. Two correctional officials, who were in charge of offenders during the escape, have since been suspended pending the investigations,” added Hlungwani. Hlungwani said the profile of Hlongwane indicate that he is a dangerous person. “Community members are urged not to confront him but to inform the nearest police station or call head of security, Rabson Zulu on 082-080-1659,” added Hlungwani. Hlongwane is originally from Plot 106, Bahaad in White River.