 Revealed in December 2018, the new 720S Spider delivers the exhilaration of open-air driving and levels of day-to-day usability unseen in the convertible supercar class. “The new McLaren 720S Spider offers an unparalleled blend of extreme performance, crafted luxury, driver involvement and daily usability – all with the additional exhilaration of open-air driving whenever required.  As the most accomplished convertible supercar ever, the new Spider delivers across a remarkable spectrum of abilities to outstandingly high levels, and as lightest in class with an increase of just 49kg over the 720S Coupé, moves us even further ahead of our competition in the weight race.” Mike Flewitt, CEO of McLaren Automotive. Like all McLaren cars, the new 720S Spider has a carbon fibre structure at its core, in this case designated Monocage II-S. The strength, rigidity and light weight of the McLaren Monocage is the base for the dynamic excellence for which McLarens are renowned.  The Monocage II-S is a development of the Coupé ‘s Monocage II, without the central ‘spine’ running front to rear above the cabin. McLaren’s engineering ingenuity, underpinned by the inherent strength and rigidity of carbon fibre, means that despite the removal of the fixed roof there is no need for additional strengthening; even the unusually slim but incredibly strong windscreen A-pillars first seen on the 720S Coupé remain. ALSO READ: Only the exceptional grace 2018’s Concours SA In the first-generation Super Series, steel supports featured and the switch to carbon fibre has contributed to the Rollover Protection Structure (ROPS) in the McLaren 720S Spider being 6.8kg lighter than in the 650S.  Overall, the new 720S Spider is just 49kg – or less than 4% – heavier than the 720S Coupé. The canopy-like design of the 720S Coupé is recognised for the sense of 360-degree vision it provides, allowing light to flood into the cabin and setting a new benchmark for visibility. To accommodate the Retractable Hard Top, the Monocage II-S features a new carbon fibre upper structure engineered to sit as close as possible to the air charge coolers and intake plenum. This maximises luggage space.  The 4.0-litre twin-turbocharged McLaren V8 engine that powers the McLaren 720S Spider is unchanged from the Coupé. Mid-mounted for exceptional handling and purity of response, it produces 530kW and 770Nm and -given the lightest-in-class weight of the 720S Spider with extreme performance.  Acceleration is nothing short of phenomenal, with 0-100km/h covered in 2,9 seconds and 0-200km/h achieved in just 7,9 seconds – just 0,1 seconds off the pace of the Coupé. The standing quarter mile sprint is dispatched in 10,4 seconds – will allow, the 720S Spider to accelerating to a matching top speed of 341km/h with the roof raised.  Even with the roof lowered, maximum speed remains extraordinary at 325km/h. The Retractable Hard Top (RHT) of the 720S Spider is a completely new design, with a one-piece, carbon fibre roof panel as standard. The folding mechanism for McLaren’s new RHT is electrically rather driven and raised in just 11 seconds. A rear window lowers automatically when the RHT is opened, moving to the optimum position to minimise airflow intrusion into the cabin.  The interior is the same welcoming and luxurious supercar cabin enjoyed by 720S Coupé drivers. Opening a door – which is now a frameless design to accommodate the RHT system. A centrally-mounted 8-inch high-resolution Central Infotainment Screen remains the primary hub for the vehicle’s functions.  The interface displays audio, media, navigation, climate control and other convenience features, with all the key applications shown on a vertical carousel as well as being available via quick-access ‘hard’ keys below the screen. The active rear spoiler, which automatically activates to either decrease drag or increase downforce and also acts as an airbrake to enhance vehicle balance under heavy braking, can rise at lower speeds and to a higher position overall in the Spider application, optimising downforce and balance to ensure that performance and driver engagement is on par with the 720S Coupé. McLaren’s Proactive Chassis Control II hydraulic suspension – already renowned for challenging convention by delivering the usually incompatible combination of precise body control and a compliant ride – is complemented by an electro-hydraulic steering system widely acknowledged for providing exceptionally pure precision and feedback. A Spider driver can choose between three Handling modes – Comfort, Sport, or Track – each focused on a different driving experience according to personal preference and conditions. These proven attributes combine to ensure that the 720S Spider possesses the same depth of dynamic abilities and breadth of capability as Coupé ably demonstrates.  The new McLaren 720S Spider is available in the same three specifications as the Coupé, with Performance and Luxury trims extending above the standard model. Two new exterior colours – Belize Blue and Aztec Gold – have been introduced for the new Spider among a palette of 23, one of which is Supernova Silver, a Heritage colour that was first available on the McLaren 12C. The McLaren 720S has established a reputation in Coupé guise for its ground-breaking design, cutting-edge technologies and ferocious pace, complemented by a breadth of ability and sophistication that delivers everyday usability belying its extreme performance status. The new McLaren 720S Spider, which is available to order now from £237 000 – about R3,8 million, is the equal of the Coupé in every respect. ALSO READ: Tenth generation Impala sets the bar