 MBOMBELA –  The alleged assault took place on Monday morning. According to the learner, she was lining up for class when a grade eight boy approached her and allegedly pushed her.
She told him not to push her and then walked into the classroom and sat down. Her teacher then started the EMS class when the boy allegedly came into the classroom, ran up to her and punched her in her eye. ALSO READ: Funeral parlour denies dumping bodies at Lebombo border According to the pupil, another learner intervened and controlled the boy. The girl’s mother was called to the school and rushed her daughter to the doctor. She had sustained injuries to her head and her left eye. “I am afraid for my daughter’s safety if she goes back to the school, as the principal said he was only suspending the boy. This is despite it not being his first offence. So by the time she is healed and has to go back, so will he. How can I protect my daughter?” said her mom. She said after she got the call she found her daughter sitting on a hard wooden bench in reception. “The boy was put into the sick bay. When I requested if first aid had been provided to my daughter, I found out she had not received any assistance. When I asked for a first aid kit, they were unable to provide me with one.” Other learners who had witnessed the incident in class said the teacher had allegedly stood back and watched it happen. “She told me she did not intervene because she was afraid for her own safety. Am I supposed to leave work and sit in the class to make sure my child is safe? She was offered little or no protection from this teacher. Who is supposed to keep her safe?” “The school does not have a guidance counsellor to monitor bullying, and they do not have a nurse or anyone to provide first aid to the pupils.” The mother added that the police’s investigating officer  WO Olga Mkhari had been supportive to the family and had constantly kept in touch with her. “She took the boy into custody on Wednesday night. He appeared in court chambers on Thursday. I want to thank the police for all they have done for us.” She concluded that her daughter would be seeing an eye specialist as more blood vessels had burst since the incident. “The doctor has referred me to take her to have her eyes checked, as her eye is looking worse.” Mpumalanga education department spokesman, Jasper Zwane said they have instituted an investigation into the alleged incident and would also be sending officials to render counseling to the victim. “The Department is encouraged by the fact that the school has already suspended the learner . We condemn this incident and will monitor the developments very closely,”he concluded. Police spokesman Capt Zandile Gwaqa stated that the charge of common assault against the boy had been changed to assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm. The boy had been released on a warning and is set to appear in the Nelspruit Magistrate Court again on April 4.