What was established in 1990 as Savannah Trust, in a small cottage on a farm on the outskirts of White River, has become a reputable company loved by everyone for its delicious nuts, dried fruit, seeds and snack products.  It is a special occasion and my honour to share our journey with customers,” said Heléne Otto, general manager of Ambassador Foods White River. “We had some challenges, lessons and successes over the past 29 years, which shaped and formed us into the state-of-the-art facility we are today, and for the past four years we have also been part of the Libstar Holdings Group which listed on the JSE last May.” Vanessa Sidell, Marleen van der Westhuizen, Hanri Bester and Belinda van der Walt are ready to help customers find the snack or product of their choice at Ambassador Foods’ new factory shop in White River Country Square at 21 Chief Mgiyeni Khumalo Drive. Ambassador Foods’ purpose is to be the preferred supplier of a variety of edible nuts, dried fruit, seeds and related snack products in South Africa and on global markets.  They supply the highest quality products backed by the most reliable supply, supported by the highest standard processing facility and logistics infrastructure, ensuring these premium products are delivered at the best price to customers.  “Our mission is to build something we can be proud of by keeping it simple, making it beautiful and doing what is best for the business,” Otto continued. To unite our principles through a high sense of urgency and attention to detail, creating freedom within set parameters for the growth and development of each employee. They strive to maintain the synergy between themselves and customers and suppliers, to ensure customer service and an experience that will meet and exceed all expectations.  The management is adamant that employees, customers and suppliers all matter. “For us at Ambassador Foods this is the core that we live by – the energy, passion and drive that would be impossible to find anywhere else and ths is what makes the difference,” said Otto. The opening of the shop is an exceptional opportunity for Ambassador Foods to celebrate its own brand, EatReal.  This brand offers a better shopping experience under names such as Snackology, Sport’sOn, Spence’In, Know’Sugar, Break’Fast and Sweet’On.     