 To top it all, the Opel Combo Cargo has received the coveted IVOTY (International Van of the Year) Award. The award-winning light commercial vehicle is embracing a new generation of Opel vehicles, introducing some all-new design changes inside and out, along with more practicality than ever before. The Opel Combo Life, on the other hand, is being described as “the family’s best friend” thanks to a spacious cabin and a high level of flexibility. Indeed, you can have it with five or even seven seats, one or two rear sliding doors, and with a choice between short (4,40 metres) and long (4,75 metres) lengths. Jarlath Sweeney, chairman of the IVOTY jury said, “This is the most significant small panel van development in years. ALSO READ: Barry Sheen – Classic racing at its best The Opel Combo is well future-proofed, packed with technological advancements to aid the driver and offers substantial financial benefits to the owner or fleet manager. The creation of its new ‘overload alert system’ is a great initiative, as it will ensure compliance and enhance safety. The availability of two wheelbase versions is another step forward, as is the introduction of an all-wheel-drive variant, considering that an increasing number of utility companies are looking for 4×4 traction in a smaller van. All in all, an excellent package, well put together.” The new models accommodate the latest generation of power trains and driver assistance equipment. They offer a range of services for business/commercial customers, meeting the highest standards on the market in terms of spaciousness and modularity, including a load capacity of 1 000kg. To cover all customer needs, the vans will come in two lengths and will be available in two-, three- and five-seater versions. With each generation, Groupe PSA has brought useful and major innovations to the segment, now proposing two technologies that are unique on the market: the overload indicator and surround rear vision. Opel is one of the oldest car brands operating in southern Africa, and the brand has built a solid reputation over the 80+ years that it has been in the country. The South African Motoring Guild voted the new Opel Astra as the South African Car of the Year for 2017 after the new Astra was awarded Car of the Year in 12 European countries, as well as Overall European Car of the Year. Opel won the prestigious Car of the Year award in South Africa on few previous occasions as well – in 1991 (Opel Monza), in 1994 (Opel Kadett) and in 1995 (Opel Astra). Opel cars are known for offering luxury level specifications that packs a German-engineered punch high above their price category – hence the brand’s pay-off line: “The Future is Everyone’s”. ALSO READ: Vroom, vroom… Lowvelders, we’re off to the races