 Farmers using the Lomati and Komati rivers as an irrigation source have not been restricted and restrictions were recently lifted for those using the Crocodile River. Previously they were limited to less than half of their lawful water use allocation of 120 hours a week. Despite this, water and dam levels are still not at a safe level for this time of year and farmers are taking care with their irrigation methods. On February 27 the Komati River was flowing at 60,18 m3 per second in the Tonga area, while the latest reading of the Mlumati River were at 1,08 m3 per second, according to Inkomati-Usuthu Catchment Management Agency (IUCMA) readings. Readings taken the next day showed the Lomati River at Schoemansdal flowing at 2,06 m3 per second, with the Crocodile River’s flow at 17, 65 at Karino and 13,15 at Tenbosch. ALSO READ:Discover first 50 years of our botanical garden In terms of water reservoirs, the Vygeboom Dam was at 101,3 per cent, Witklip at 90,2, Kwena at 47, 1, Primkop at 30,70 and Driekoppies at 66,2 on February 25. IUCMA has to constantly monitor river levels, as they are obligated to ensure that environmental flow requirements and the needs of water users, especially those lower down the Crocodile River, are being met. If the Lowveld does not receive rain over the last bit of the rainfall season, the water situation could reach critical proportions in the weeks leading up to spring and summer. Due to the low availability of water over the past several years, farmers have had to adapt their irrigation methods to make the best use of the water they have. But if the water situation is critical, long-term fruit crops or crops that will have the biggest positive impact on farmers’ finances are protected. In the past, this has meant that farmers had to abandon some sugar cane fields to ensure others grow to the best quality possible. According to the SA Weather Service’s Seasonal Climate Watch, released on February 1, they expected above average rainfall conditions alternating with dry spells in the summer rainfall areas in March and April, as the seasons change. Temperatures will remain high towards autumn. Forecasters advise that conservative planning is used and state that they will continue to monitor the weather patterns to provide more clarity on the expectations for the rest of the year. ALSO READ: ‘n Volle honderd jaar oud