 WHITE RIVER – He plays a key role in the relief work after Cyclone Idai with his faithful Land Cruiser bakkie loaded with appropriate foodstuffs (mielie meal, tinned high-protein foods, rice and baby formula), he set out on the two-anda-half day drive to Beira on his own, with the hope of joining other rescue missions. Fortunately he can communicate in the local language. Disaster struck, however, when he got stuck near the little village of Inchope, about a 100 kilometres from Beira. READ: “There was nothing left of the village,” he said. “About 200 000 people were devastated. Their harvest was gone, their mud huts demolished and their goats and chickens had drowned.” Worst of all, an orphanage accommodating more than 35 children had lost its roof. He found eight seriously injured patients hiding under a tarpaulin. Their injuries were caused by walls collapsing and roof sheeting flying around in the gusts of wind. One of them was a 19-year-old girl with a fractured pelvis. Another 17-year-old child suffered from a femur fracture and an adult man suffered severe chronic arm pain caused by pinched nerves. “But doctors don’t save lives – money, equipment and supplies do.” Hattingh expressed his desperation about the situation he found himself in. “Fortunately we heard rumours that Chimoio, a neighbouring town, miraculously escaped the fury of the cyclone, so we transformed the Land Cruiser into a temporary ambulance and managed to transport five patients there.” To their relief Chimoio had water, electricity and even diesel. The hospital there was fairly equipped. After getting approval from the Mozambican medical board, he assisted a very capable local orthopaedist to repair the young woman’s fractured pelvis and the femur fracture on the 17-year-old, as well as performed an anterior cervical discectomy on the man to relieve his arm pain. In Chimoio he found a little girl under a tree, crying incessantly about the loss of her little pet lamb. “On the spur of the moment, I promised to bring her one when I come back!” he said, regrettably. Last Sunday he travelled back to South Africa with the purpose of collecting the 30 tons of food. In addition he needs to raise funds to purchase medicine in Mozambique. “It just saves a lot of red tape to buy it there instead of taking it across the border.” He explained the need for money rather than the medicine itself. His target area stretches 80 kilometres long and 100 kilometres wide and is currently unreachable. Hundreds of thousands of people are shut out from other relief rescue teams due their location. They are in desperate need of medical care, food, and clean water. “Cholera is unavoidable under these circumstances,” Hattingh said with despair. “Their natural water sources, rivers and wells are either washed away or contaminated and hand pumps gone.