Milites Dei Academy (MDA) specialises in educating students in a military-style environment. This enables the students to work in Anti-Poaching as well as Cruise- and Cargo ships as security or in Private Investigations and the Specialised Private security industry. Students are required to live at the academy while completing their studies. On a daily basis, students will participate in expertly guided military simulated activities, training and education.  They will learn to master bungalow inspections,  a drill routine, raising the flag, physical exercises, close quarter combat and many military style skills subjects such as map work, fire and movement and ambushing.  Not only do students get the opportunity to acquire the skills that they need for their chosen career paths, but while training at Milites Dei Academy, they assist students who have completed their respective courses by compiling a CV and portfolio that will assist them in getting job placement. At MDA instructors personally guide each student to be successful so that no one falls out of the course and the student becomes part of a caring family. MDA has a brother system whereby the new student is linked with a successful student at the academy and a student already working in the field.  Milites Dei Academy has an array of courses to choose from such as PSIRA Grade E – A, a One Year Risk Solutions Specialist Operative course which gives you the opportunity to do VIP Protection, SWAT, dog handling and many more short courses.  For those who are passionate about animals and their protection, there is a One Month Anti-Poaching Special Forces Ranger course which gives students the opportunity to become Combat Trackers, Reaction Forces, or become part of an Anti-Poaching Unit at lodges, game farms, game reserves or commercial game farms.  The most popular course at MDA is the Three-Month Specialist Operative Course that will allow students to acquire the skills needed to work in a security environment on cruise ships, private yachts and cargo ships. These skills will also allow students to follow a career as private investigators, anti-poaching units, security at mines, lodges and 5-star hotels, farm security, undercover agents, assets in transit, trackers and many more.  Milites Dei is a family business which is co-owned by Bardo Buys who is a Trainer and Certified Anti-terrorism Specialist. Barney Buys is the Head Technical Instructor, while Amareza Buys is the Education Specialist and Linette de Beer is the Sales and Marketing Coordinator.  Any day is open at Milites Dei Academy, so just pop in for a visit if you want to pursue a career path in private security. Milites Dei Academy’s Training Head Office is situated in the Sanderson House in Peebles Valley, on the Numbi Road just outside of White River. The Bush Camp is nestled in a Forest called Bush Camp Ego and is host to several courses. One of the many statues found in South Africa were erected just outside the training venue. The statue of Jock of the Bushveld is nestled on a hill with a view of the Legogote Mountain ranges and offers breathtaking views of the surrounding flora and fauna. Sir Percy Fitzpatrick, Jock’s owner, wrote some chapters of his famous books in the Sanderson House.    