 MBOMBELA – Outbreaks of AHS in Gauteng and Mpumalanga were officially reported to the department in February and March, according to Steve Galane, department spokesman. “However, there is currently no conclusive information indicative of unusually high incidences of AHS outbreaks for this time of the year.” “Unfortunately, outbreaks are expected to occur in the AHS-infected zone from November to May, often with a peak from February to April, depending on climatic factors such as rainfall and temperature,” Galane said in a statement. Lowvelder previously reported how the local equestrian fraternity had been thrown into chaos after reports of the illness, with many shows being cancelled and postponed as a result. READ MORE: Confusion mounts over African horse sickness Friday’s statement by DAFF was its first official communication on the outbreak. “The department is working with the equine industry on protective measures for horses in the AHS-infected zone with the aim of reducing the severity of outbreaks, while being neither too restrictive on the movement and trade of equids within the AHS-infected zone, nor too onerous with regards to the administrative and financial burden of all role players involved with equids,” Galane said. “The Animal Diseases Act 1984 requires that owners and managers of animals take all reasonable steps to protect their animals and prevent the spreading of diseases from their animals. The movement of equids that are infected with the AHS virus may increase the risk to other equids and should therefore be limited,” he added. • Culicid midges gather and breed in moist or muddy areas. Try to eliminate likely breeding areas by, for example, removing pools or puddles of standing water, siting muck heaps away from the equines and eliminating muddy areas around leaking taps and water troughs. • Avoid allowing horses out of their stables until the dew on the grass is dry. Do not allow them to graze on wet or marshy land if possible. Stable your horses from at least two hours before sunset to at least two hours after sunrise. • Treat your horses and the stable facility with a culicoides midge repellent or registered insecticide. Consider the use of day sheets to help protect the animals from midges. • Ensure your horses are vaccinated against AHS and by the correct person, in the correct time period and according to the AHS zone they are in. Now, while there is increased activity of the vector, is not the right time to vaccinate. • According to the Animal Diseases Act 1984, if you have had a case of AHS on your property, you should inform your neighbours, anyone who brings equines to your property and anyone you take one of your horses to. This will help ensure they can take precautions to keep their animals safe too. ALSO READ: Load-shedding: Why some areas are affected and others not