 MBOMBELA – The grants cover the fees, books, transport and accommodation for students to finish their higher education at various institutions. The money originates from individual income taxes that each and every person in the country pays for monthly. Yet many still struggle to feed themselves, pay for decent accommodation and transport. This has led to many feeling angry and frustrated at a system which is supposed to help them. ALSO READ : NSFAS Funding explained. Students have been protesting over the past few months at the University of Mpumalanga, TVET colleges and TUT.
Last Tuesday students protested outside the TUT Mbombela campuses. “Students are being evicted because NSFAS has not paid. The off-campus residences are not getting meal allowances due to the new circular six released by the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET),” said one protester. Another mentioned that there were differences in amounts that first- and third-year NFSAS students had received, and a lack of accommodation.  Last week a protest occurred in Waterval Boven because a young female student was allegedly raped. Many of her peers believed it would not have happened if she had received her grant to provide her with
safe accommodation. Another student from the Waterval Boven TVET College stated that they were asked to put in claim forms for their needs. “We have not received any money for months. All they are covering is our college fees.” Agricultural students took to the streets in Pilgrim’s Rest, protesting that they were only receiving R1 500 for accommodation, books, food and transport. “We cannot live on this.” Lowvelder spoke to a young woman attending the TUT College situated in Koraalboom Street. “I get R700 per month for food, transportation and boarding and sometimes I do not see the money for months. I collect it from an office at the college. They do not give me a slip.” Mbombela accommodation providers for TUT College students told Lowvelder they had not received payment for the past three months. They also stated that the college pays them R3 000 per month per student. Out of this they have to provide security, Wi-Fi, accommodation and even toilet paper for the students. “We also are expected to give the college three per cent for each child.” Last year institutions used a service provider called FUNDI for students at TUT. FUNDI’s manager, Jacques Nuus, explained that their organisation would provide cards for books, accommodation and for transport.
“We would then charge the shops or accommodation places on our list three per cent to be on our list for the students to use.” The money was allocated specifically for these things, and students could not use it for anything else. “If you look at students, some will not be responsible with their money. This might lead to problems for them. Our card system forces them to be disciplined.” Ehlanzeni TVET College marketing and communication spokesman, Mxolisi Nzimande stated that NSFAS had still not paid all the money due to the college for 2018 as NSFAS had serious challenges. “NSFAS now has a new executive administrator and it seems as if it is going much better this year. We receive better communication and support and had received our first advance payment which was paid to students on February 15.” He said the majority of their students qualified for a bursary which meant almost 6 159 would qualify for a bursary if their household income is not more than
R350 000 per annum. He stated that NSFAS is a non-refundable bursary and allowance. As long as the student remained at the college and attended 80 per cent of their classes, they would get their allowances. If they fail, then they would not get a bursary and allowance the next year. TUT spokesman, Willa de Ruyter failed to comment at the time of going to press.