 MBOMBELA – According to the deal, the land was sold at a cost of R1,1 billion, the biggest land claim in the country’s history. It was concluded in November 2013 and took six years to finalise. On Thursday the Land Rights Management Facility (LRMF) committed to make the applications to have the CPA’s bank account frozen, interdict the transfer of funds, and compel the CPA’s interim committee to comply with the CPA Act. The deal raised concerns that if the deal set a benchmark, land restoration could become unaffordable. In the 2012/13 financial year, the department spent R1,6 billion to settle 549 claims. In the previous year, less than R1 billion was spent buying back land to settle 252 claims. The DA’s shadow minister for rural development and land reform, Ken Robertson, welcomed the decision to adopt the proposal. The applications were expected to be made on Monday. Robertson said they felt the Mala Mala beneficiaries had been misrepresented. ALSO SEE: Mala Mala deal to be probed “In June the DA proposed that the Mala Mala land deal be subjected to a forensic investigation. This follows allegations by a number of beneficiaries accusing Nwandlamharhi CPA of mishandling and withholding dividends owed to them. “Finally, after a portfolio oversight visit to Mala Mala in November, the committee, realising the dire need for intervention, concluded a scathing report as to the merits of purchase of the property, the current affairs, the verification of beneficiaries and the mismanagement of funds. “As per the contract, R75,3 million has been paid by Mala Mala management company to the community via the accounts of the CPA and concerned attorneys, yet approximately 500 households out of the 980 have not benefitted. “The DA awaits the outcomes of the forensic investigation and verification process and we will ensure that no stone is left unturned regarding matters of transparency that will assist the poorest of the poor to receive the benefits of the most expensive land deal in South Africa’s history.” READ MORE: Mala Mala: SANParks was informed of Mabunda’s BEE involvement