 WHITE RIVER – The infectious and catchy chorus of Creedence Clearwater Revival’s (CCR) “Proud Mary” had patrons at White River’s The Barnyard Theatre stomping their feet and bobbing their heads at the CCR tribute on Saturday. Clint and Co frontman, Clint Cunningham belted out the chorus, “Rollin’ down the river” while his bandmates David Visser (bass guitar), Peter Hanmer (electric guitar) and Larry Rose (drums) provided what could only be described as a scintillating performance. Wandi Rovati, William Rovati, Renier le Roux, Anne van Zyl and Joubert van Zyl. READ ALSO: Models strut their stuff all the way into American magazine The crowd members in attendance were wowed by the music and Barnyard theatre manager, Steven Hyson said, “Clint and Co did their first show here 15 years ago and the general consensus among patrons is that they deliver the best Creedence Clearwater Revival tribute show.” The band certainly lived up to the hype and delivered hit after hit, getting people on their feet in appreciation. The entire show was pulled off in spectacular fashion and the ambience certainly played a great role in getting CCR music lovers together for an entertaining evening. Steve Hyson. Before the proceedings started, the family-friendly theatre was filled with throngs of attendees of all ages who mingled in the cosy courtyard, having a taste of the Mongolian stir-fry and chatting up a storm while waiting for the band to take to the stage. When 20:00 rolled around, the time had come for Clint and Co to ascend the stage and deliver a signature show, maintaining their reputation as a rock-solid band. Cunningham’s gravelly voice took over the theatre and his musical skills certainly did not disappoint. Dawid Visser, Clint and Co bass guitarist. For the patrons, the warm Lowveld air and the classic rock music being belted out, coupled with the intimate setting at the theatre, provided an evening of socialising with friends and family over good music, good food and conversation. READ ALSO: The Three Divas’ show to wow the crowd For the younger crowd, it was just the evening to appreciate the older generation’s love of CCR, delivered faultlessly by without a doubt, a band which knows just the right chord to strike to evoke in the audience a feeling of nostalgia for an era which produced great music.