 She also claimed 26 282 students were funded in public institutions last year. She explained that an NSFAS bursary is awarded to a student for the duration of study. This means that they only apply once to NSFAS.
Regarding their accommodation, food and transportation needs, she explained that NSFAS transfers the funds directly to the institutions. ALSO READ: NSFAS grant students still struggle to feed themselves and have accommodation In making a final determination on the awarding of private accommodation allowances, the college financial aid committee should consider, inter alia, the “going rate” for the area in which the college/campus is located and a rental agreement.
The college must award the accommodation allowance to students residing more than 40 kilometres from the institution. It should therefore be noted that the actual private accommodation allowance that will be awarded to a student will be one of three amounts. 1. Once this is been decided on, how is the money supposed to be distributed to the students? NSFAS will pays them directly for institutions on NSFAS Wallet, and then the students are liable for their own accommodation payments. NSFAS pays colleges directly for students not on NSFAS Wallet. The college then pays the students directly, and they are then liable for their own accommodation payments. NSFAS will pay colleges directly in a case where an institution has its own residences and accommodation has to be provided inclusive of meals.
TVETs The table below indicates items that may be claimed from the bursary. All costs listed in the table below are maximum amounts that may be awarded to students in 2019.   2. What is the minimum amount a student receives for food?
College accommodation is inclusive of meals (colleges and landlords for private accommodation must provide at least three meals a day. The financial aid committee should include meals in the accommodation allowance in instances where students do not receive meals from the landlord). 3. Is there a basic amount set out for all students across the board in Mpumalanga?
The bursary scheme consists of two processes, namely tuition fees and allowances (comprising the personal care allowance, accommodation or travel allowance). NSFAS is responsible for making a determination of whether or not students’ applications are successful in so far as the tuition fees are concerned. Colleges are responsible for making a determination on the applications for travel and accommodation allowances.
Students therefore need to apply directly to the college for allowances as part of the registration process, but they must first apply to NSFAS in order to determine whether or not they qualify for financial aid. 4. At the TUT campus in Mbombela students are protesting due to first  years getting a larger amount than the third-year students, and they cannot cope daily with what they have been allocated.? Any funding received by a senior NSFAS student, on the pre-2018 conditions is subject to the maximum funding “cap” determined on annual basis by NSFAS. The funding cap for 2019 is R88 600. This cap covers tuition, accommodation and allowances. This is a government policy, not a NSFAS one.