At Sasol, we recognise that we have an important role to play in socio-economic development, particularly within the communities in which we operate – our fenceline communities. Sasol actively partners with government in driving socio-economic transformation and nation building through our Social Investment Department. One of the company’s strategic focus areas is education and skills development as an enabler to improve the lives of the communities around our operations. In this edition we profile some of the education and skills development programmes that Sasol has introduced in Govan Mbeki, Lekwa and Dipaleseng municipalities. Sasol Grade 12 Merit Awards 2018 recipients with representatives from Sasol and it’s business partners Sasol and Osizweni Science Centre, are committed to giving full support to the education fraternity. One of the priorities is to assist the Department of Education in delivering quality Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education. Osizweni is Sasol’s education  flagship. For the past 24 years, Sasol and Osizweni have been sponsoring the Grade 12 Merit Awards to recognise the best performing learners, teachers and schools (particularly those who performed well in Mathematics and Science) from the Govan Mbeki, Lekwa and
Dipaleseng municipalities.  Teachers who received awards for their outstanding 2018 results The awards were given out to learners who have obtained 3 – 8 distinctions as well as the overall top achievers from quintile 1 – 3 schools (non-fee) and quintile 4 schools. The best performing teachers and most improved schools were also awarded. Rose Jerry Thanjan, Sasol Grade 12 Merit Awards overall top achiever with representatives from Sasol and government This year, a total of 82 learners received merit award certificates during the event held on 10 January 2019 as well as cash prizes for their outstanding achievements. Top achievers received a sum of
fiffteen thousand rands towards registration at institutions of higher learning and learners who obtained distinctions received a thousand rand per distinction. We congratulate all the top achievers especially the top performer in quintile 1-3, Smangaliso Simelane from Kiryitswane High School and the 2018 overall top performer, Rose Jerry Thanjan from Evander High School. We wish them the best of luck in their future studies.  The Fork lift drivers with Sailor Mashalane the training facilitator during the ceremonySasol, in partnership with the Toyota (EIE Group) Industrial Equipment, piloted a forklift training programme as part of a youth skills development initiative. The project was established early in 2018 to create a pool of employable youth in the community. The project benefitted 20 local female youths that were trained in the scarce skill of forklift driving. As part of the training, learners were placed in different areas of the company to gain practical experience. Ten learners further had an opportunity to be part of work integrated learning during the
2018 shutdown. The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed between Sasol and Toyota Industrial Equipment focuses on training and development of unemployed young people, to gain forklift driver skills that will enable them to become economic viable. Emerging farmers and cooperatives during graduation ceremony at Delmas with Sasol representatives   Sasol observed World Cleanup Day 2018 campaign together with community members and civil society organisations 