 A man on a mission to change lives for the better, Tony Wake was the main speaker of the meet-and-greet morning networking event in Tindlovu at the botanical garden. The guests had a great time while learning, getting motivated and meeting new people. Wake is a well known motivational speaker, life and business strategist. He did a presentation on how to get out of your comfort zone. ALSO READ:Here are the 10 mistakes Lowveld businesses make most The main topic was ‘your comfort zone is a place where you are comfortable, but is not necessarily where your goals and achievement will be achieved.’    “A lot of people do not understand that there’s a difference between goals and vision. You need to grow, you need to expand, and you need to get out of your comfort zone. Expand that so that you can gain more experience, knowledge and get feedback from life in order to move to where you want to go,” he said.    “Your goal needs to be written down so that it becomes a vision. In order for you to be able to have that vision, you need to be able to imagine it. You need to also have an imagination in order to have a vision of your life. For you to be able to get to that vision you need to be able to imagine yourself in that position and in that situation you would like to be in. If you are just saying it would be nice to have this but not imagining yourself there, then change your way of thinking.    “If you want to be a king or a queen you need to imagine yourself as that. It does not help imagining yourself as a peasant begging on the table. A king/queen won’t do that. ALSO READ:BNI Lowveld names their top go-getters “The idea and thoughts that you have can only be there, because in your conscious it is already a reality. If you can imagine it, then it means that there’s a way for you to make it a reality,” said Wake. Annemarie van der Merwe from Ramps-to-Runway said she enjoyed the event. “It was interesting and I like the way the motivational speaker, Wake, inspired us. I would advise those who do not attend these events to join and they will be motivated. You meet the most lovely and beautiful people,” said Van der Merwe. Beanie Mirams from Miki and Beanie Personalised Creations, said it was a very insightful event. “We were reminded to be confident with ourselves. I enjoyed myself and met new people,” she said.    Monique Lowther also gave a presentation about 16-year-old Amber Jane Prinsloo, who has Stargardt Disease. Amber Jane has 15 per cent vision and is in need of financial assistance.