 ELUKWATINI – According to Sgt Peace Mbokane, Elukwatini police spokesman, Zandile Priscilla Themba was arrested after the SAPS received a tip-off. Mbokane said police went to Themba’s residence to investigate. “When they went to her house she was not there. She was eventually found at a friend’s apartment and was then taken back to her residence where the police began combing her room. While they were doing so, Themba voluntarily got the firearm from underneath the bed and gave it to them,” said Mbokane. He said the gun was a 7.65 millimetre Browning with seven live rounds. “The serial number on the barrel had been completely filed off. The police employed tactics to find the number and further discovered that it was reported as stolen in Soshanguve in 1998,” added Mbokane. Read More: Church join hands with police to fight crime He said Themba was then asked as to how she had found the pistol. She informed the officials that on March 9, she and her friends were offered a lift from a liquor outlet by an unknown male who was proposing love to her. She only knew that he hailed from Emalahleni. “Apparently, when the man dropped them off at their residence, his firearm fell on the ground and she only saw it the next day. According to her, she made attempts to contact the owner to come and collect it. He kept saying he would come, but police came knocking on her door,” continued Mbokane. Also Read: 54-year old man arrested after a woman was found with 16 gunshot wounds Themba was then arrested and has been kept in the holding cells. She appeared in the Eerstehoek Magistrate’s Court on Monday on a charge of possession of an unlicensed firearm. At the time of going to press, the verdict was unknown. The station commander of Elukwatini, Col Mfundisi Makamu said he appreciated the team for effecting the arrest. “Our area has recently been affected by murder and it delights me that we are doing all we can to serve and protect our community. “We also appreciate the law-abiding citizens who are working hand in hand with us to ensure that our area is free from illegal firearms,” said Makamu.