 MARLOTH PARK –  According to police spokesman, Sgt Natacia Mbuyane, Karin Geldenhuys (49), Pieter Daniel Geldenhuys and a male friend were apparently at home enjoying some drinks when an alleged argument broke out between the couple. She allegedly accused Pieter of being unfaithful. Karin then allegedly stabbed him twice in the chest with a butcher’s knife. ALSO READ:  Spar Lowveld spreads love for children in distress Nadine Edgecombe of the Marloth Park community policing forum (CPF), said one of their members received a call from the friend to urgently call for help and an ambulance. “The member phoned for the ambulance and then got hold of me. The SAPS were also contacted while I called a police captain I know,” said Edgecombe. “On behalf of the community and CPF, we send our sincere condolences to his family and the witness who was a close friend of Pieter’s. “Our thoughts are with them during this sad time.” CPF members secured the crime scene until police arrived. Karin was arrested. Field Security and another security company responded to the scene.  Field security manager, Hugo Kruger said his team secured the outside and one of their paramedics tried to stabilise Pieter.  “He was taken to hospital by ambulance,” said Kruger. Mediclinic Nelspruit spokesman Robyn Baard said the patient was admitted at the hospital.  “He passed away from his injuries at 05:15 on Saturday.” ALSO READ: 54-year old man arrested after a woman was found with 16 gunshot wounds Pieter, who was a construction worker, had been working on a road that was being built between South Africa and Swaziland. He leaves behind two sons, Dewald and Hanro, and his daughter, Shirleen. Hanro said his father was a very clever man and the word lazy could not be associated with him. “He was a very loving and caring father and family was a very important part of his life. On many of our childhood weekends we would wake to the sound of his woodworking machines. He had a passion for woodwork. My fiancée always made jokes when he would phone me as we would talk for hours and hours. I think the phone calls are what I will miss the most about him and how we talked for hours on end. He would give me advice about my life and work. “This is a very tough time for our family, as this was not a natural death. We were very shocked when the accused was released on Monday. We really thought more would happen and we would really like to see that justice has been paid for his death,” added Hanro. Karin appeared in the Komatipoort Periodical Court on Monday, was charged with murder and released on free bail.
The matter was postponed indefinitely for further investigation. National Prosecuting Authority spokesman, Monica Nyuswa failed to comment regarding the court matter at the time of going to press.