 MBOMBELA – According to Hi-Tech Security regional operations manager Callum MacPherson, a member of the public phoned to say a suspect fitting the description was seen in the Steiltes area on Thursday morning. “I raced there and I recognised him. I had heard that there was a warrant of arrest for him that was outstanding. I chased and arrested him and drove him to the police station where he was charged.” Over the past two months Steiltes has been inundated with house robberies. Security and crime-fighters believe it is a criminal syndicate that is targeting the area. On Saturday afternoon Hi-Tech Security caught the same suspect in Aurora Street, after he had jumped over fences in Melkweg Street. ALSO READ: School girl afraid to return to class at Valencia Combined School Some residents in Steiltes were fuming after police released the same suspect claiming they could not arrest him as he had no stolen goods in his possession. “How can you let him go without doing a profile on him? And there were two residents in the police station who could identify him, as the person who had broken into their houses,” said Steiltes resident Louise Munnick. MacPherson said after the suspect was apprehended for the second time, the police discovered there was an outstanding warrant for his arrest. According to a source at the station, the suspect’s father arrived and allegedly tried to intimidate police and security due to his position in government. Munnik said her family were left traumatised when their house was burgled last week. “They stole our brand-new laptop and cellphones.” Another resident, Yolisa Sabane, stated on social media that the same suspect had allegedly broken into her house on Thursday at around 01:00. “He took my daughter’s phone and the whole ordeal has traumatised her so much, as she had woken up while he was trying to get to the phone.” Police spokesman Capt Zandile Gwaqa said she had requested the station commander to look into why the suspect was released the first time.