 The project was suspended last year due to community unrest. However, months of negotiations between the eMakhazeni Local Municipality, TRAC, SANRAL and WBHO/Motheo JV (contractor) has resulted in the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) and a nod for resuming the project. The MOU focuses on various issues, with emphasis on principles and guidelines that ensure that local communities benefit from the initiative. The R400-million project will see section 5B rehabilitated and upgraded to a four-lane carriageway. Blasting is will start in April 2019 and the roadworks are expected to take 36 months to complete. ALSO READ: TRAC – with you every kilometre of the way The major upgrade of the N4 between Matola and Maputo (Sections 19 and 20) in Mozambique is ongoing and Mozambican road users will soon have a six-lane carriageway to enjoy between these two cities. This extensive project includes comprehensive roadworks between the Shoprite Centre Intersection in Matola and the June 16, Circle in Maputo. The project has fallen behind schedule due to circumstances beyond TRAC’s control, but they are committed to completing it by July 2019. There were various reasons for the delays, including issues at two CFM structures and the relocation of dwellings that were on the road reserve, but these have been addressed. Although closures relating to the roadworks will be in place until June 2019, streetlights are being installed and will be operational this month. TRAC is looking forward to the completion of the project and is confident that once concluded road users will appreciate the safer and easier drive. The rehabilitation of the existing carriageway is underway, and the project will be complete in April this year. Daytime shoulder closures and occasional lane reductions can be expected until completion. The rehabilitation of the existing carriageway is underway, and the project is advancing well. Completion is expected in May this year. There is currently one Stop/Go in place, which will be lifted during long weekends. This project will commence in the next three months and will see the rehabilitation (milling and overlaying) of the existing pavement. The nature of the roadworks will result in long-term lane closures as well as a daytime Stop/Go at the Montrose Interchange during off-peak hours. This much-anticipated project has been initiated with community participation starting this month. TRAC also mentioned that they would like to thank the public for their patience and understanding at construction zones and assures the public of their continued commitment to maintaining the N4 Toll Route on par with world standards. ALSO READ: Roadworks on Schoemanskloof ongoing till August 2019