 MBOMBELA – Mike Berridge report shared by Storm Report South Africa stated that cyclone Idai will makes landfall today in the provinces of Sofala and Zambezia in central Mozambique a little north of the port of Beira. The strongest winds, and storm surge on the coast, will inconveniently occur during the night after the wind and torrential rain has been gradually increasing throughout today. ALSO READ: 54-year old man arrested after a woman was found with 16 gunshot wounds The maximum sustained winds (excluding random gusts which will be stronger) should be around 40 – 60 knots depending on the topography (lie of the land). Tomorrow morning (Friday) the winds will quickly abate when the storm collapses due to the frictional drag of the land. But the torrential rains will continue and move westward into the neighboring province of Manica. There the winds are not likely to exceed the ordinary gale force 35 knots. The next ‘port of call’ will be the east escarpment of Zimbabwe. Fortunately, the storm has a small diameter, and even more fortunately is not able to track up or down the coast at full force. It will be over quickly, but the main problem is going to be the flooding from the excessive amount of rain which won’t cease with the demise of the storm, but will be maintained by very humid Equatorial air continuing to flow in from the north. 06:57 MBOMBELA – Storm Report South Africa reported this morning that Idai is once again an extremely dangerous cyclone. They described the cyclone has having a “well defined eye and extremely favourable conditions for further intensification.” ALSO READ: South African emergency services on way as Cyclone Idai nears Mozambique Less than an hour ago Idai was travelling at a speed of 11 kilometers  per hour with sustained winds of 195 kilometers  per hour and gusting at 240 kilometers per hour. Waves of 12 meters and storm surge of 1.9 meters is an indication of what can be expected when Idai reaches landfall. ALSO READ: Evacuation plans for certain areas in Moz due to Cyclone Idai