 Mpumalanga is a province famed for its artisans who display beautifully handcrafted pieces as you drive into the city along the N4. For visitors, stopping at the stalls which are spread along the route is an absolute must. You are likely to find exquisitely carved goods made from materials ranging from stone and scrap metal to wooden figurines. The Big Five features prominently in these creations, as do beads, traditional siSwati masks and vibrant paintings depicting the culture. The bright colours tell a story of the necklace’s origin. The artists can usually be seen fashioning new pieces while potential buyers peruse the goods on show. These mini-exhibitions are an indication of the wealth of talent available in Mbombela. For these artists, the sale of a single art piece stands between them and an empty belly for the day, but their love of creating art while celebrating their heritage is what pushes them to continue chiseling away to add to their collections. READ ALSO: Clint and Co delivers CCR hits with great panache The vibrant colours lend an unmistakably siSwati character to the art and, in most instances, they offer anything from cushions to dresses, tablecloths, paintings, wall hangings, sculptures and scarves. On display are wooden giraffes or soapstone hippopotami, ritual masks and religious figurines. The religious masks hold tremendous significance. These hold a very strong significance culturally and are all available for purchase. These informal traders normally continue carving while you browse and watching the process in action imbues one with a deep appreciation for their art and can be an interesting learning experience to the observer. The preservation of tradition and craftsmanship is sure to leave a legacy which will last for generations to come. Apart from the life-sized figurines and masks on offer, there are smaller art pieces which will make packaging and transport that much easier. READ ALSO: Elise Buitendag presents historic walk at the Lowveld National Botanical Gardens The traditional jewellery, usually in the form of bead work, is available in the form of bracelets, anklets and necklaces. The designs have an interesting story to tell which dates back through the ages. A conversation with the seller will reveal details about the origin through the colours and patterns used. Wooden siSwati carvings. Grass weaving features prominently and is an extremely intricate process which cannot be mastered in one day. There is almost a sense of being transported back in time as you watch the weavers’ skilful fingers manipulating the grass into the desired shape and patterns. They have a myriad of uses around the home or can be used to add that distinctly African feel as a centrepiece display. Communities along the seemingly endless stretch of road are represented by these artists who are keeping alive the ancient traditions which, as folklore has it, have been passed down from generation to generation.