Toshiba Tech has been South Africa’s leading copier and office automation dealer since 2002. What makes Toshiba Tech unique? 2019 Breakthrough product: Toshiba Tech SA has recently launched the all new ECO multifunction printer (MFP) and it’s taking the market by storm. This is the world’s first monochrome system with erase function. Being the only company in the world with this erase technology it has made this a lean addition to their fleet of MFP’s. They recently launched a complete Small to Medium Enterprise (SME) solution and now offers every make and model in South Africa through its newly established brand – Copiersafrica.  Why Toshiba Tech’s client retention rate is 99% + Toshiba Tech strives to achieve the best service levels in the market and has a proven track record in client support. As a result, Toshiba Tech proudly supplies government departments and various state-owned enterprises as well as a full list of additional government offices. Following the rules of the industry, Toshiba Tech has achieved to have all its machines certified making 100% certain the customer receives what is promised in terms of product capabilities. Kaizen (改善) is the Japanese word for “improvement”. Toshiba Tech SA strongly believes in the kaizen-way. In business, kaizen refers to activities that continually improve all functions and involve all employees from the CEO to the assembly line workers. It has since spread throughout the world and has been applied to environments outside the business and productivity scene. “Our agency cannot survive without the continued business automation support by the team from Toshiba Tech,” said Louis Schoeman, Managing Director of SEOPros. What level of expertise can you expect from Toshiba Tech? Continuing its commitment to improving customer experience, Toshiba Tech SA introduced its Elevate™ 2.0 MFP customization platform. Though just introduced, the new Toshiba MFP solution has already secured the prestigious 2019 Keypoint Intelligence-Buyers Lab Pick Award for outstanding MFP customization tool. Buyers Lab Pick stands alone in the industry. It is hard-earned awards as the honour is based on rigorous testing, including an extensive durability assessment and evaluation of key attributes such as usability, image quality, and value. “Elevate 2.0 represents an industry shift as it enables our resellers to personalize Toshiba e-STUDIO MFP’s to meet the specific workflow needs of each client,” stated Toshiba Tech SA Executive Director Kingsley Chambers. “Providing this level of customization to the customer allows organizations to operate much more efficiently and productively.” Visit our websites now for more details on your customised office solution – https://www.toshibatechsa.co.za/  and https://toshibacopiers.com/