 Sembcorp Silulumanzi spokesman, Richmond Jele, explained that spells of load-shedding causing prolonged unplanned outages, coupled with transformer failures are having a serious effect on water supply and distribution. Reservoirs are at a critically low level and some areas have already started to experience lack of supply.”If there is no electricity, we cannot abstract water from the river for purification in the treatment plant. If there is already purified water in the plant and the electricity goes off, we can’t pump it out of the plant to the reservoir. ALSO READ: South African mother fears for daughter and granchild in Beira after Cyclone Idai “Pump stations along the distribution network need electricity to convey water from one point to the next, unless the area being supplied is below the level of the reservoir and gravity is used to distribute it from one point to the next. “If the reservoir level is too low, high-lying areas may experience poor water pressure or no water coming from taps.”Jele added that when electricity is restored unexpectedly, serious damage can be caused to electrical equipment, including their pumps. “We have already experienced transformer failures in some areas.”Sembcorp uses fuel-powered generators at sewer pump stations to ensure the protection of the environment. “However, we have to send people to physically check these sewer pump stations when electricity is switched back on because of possible equipment failures.” He said the reservoir levels in the city which remained low are being monitored constantly to ensure minimal disruption of supply. “Should the electricity supply situation persist or deteriorate, it might become necessary to consider implementing a water distribution schedule to cope. It is therefore critical that we all use available water very responsibly and strictly for essential needs.” Areas in Nsikazi have been on interrupted supply before load-shedding and have already experienced a lack of water supply.”Due to low reservoir levels, high-lying areas and some sections of KaNyamazane have experienced poor pressure, and in some isolated cases no water coming out of taps during distribution times. “Interventions through water tanker distribution to seriously affected areas are being implemented to ensure everyone has clean water. “All areas affected by load-shedding, leading to very low reservoir levels, will experience water shortages or poor pressure, depending on the timing and duration of the power cut. If the level of the reservoir is at 80 per cent or more, the area supplied by it may not be adversely affected, provided water users to do not immediately deplete storage.” Bigger reservoirs may take between to six to eight hours to fill up. “Reservoir levels in Mbombela have improved since Wednesday morning and are constantly monitored. Please report any sewer spillages and water leaks to 0861-74-5858 (0861 SILULU).” ALSO READ: American family trapped near Lemago after Cyclone Idai