 Load-shedding affects your security in a number of ways, but there are steps you can take to mitigate the effects. Hi-Tech Security offers the following advice. Alarms With constant power failures in one area alarm batteries will start to fail, meaning alarms will not be able to send signals.
If your alarm battery has been in use for more than six months it is strongly recommended that you replace it – especially if you are going away. If you are going away you need a trusted person regularly checking that your alarm is functioning. Constant load-shedding makes the monitoring of power failures very ineffective as thousands of power failures will occur daily. Generators Generator theft might increase as the re-sale value will increase because of load-shedding. Make sure you use your generator in a well-ventilated area as fumes are toxic. Remember to lock it up after use to avoid theft. Never refuel your generator while it is operating and store reserve fuel carefully to avoid a fire hazard. Gate motors Gate motor theft will also increase as batteries will be sought-after. Have a secure bracket installed. Remember to have an alternative access point other than an electric motor to your yard. Gate motor batteries will also start to fail from load-shedding. If it is your only access emergency services and security won’t be able to enter should they need to. Appliances and general safety Fridges and other appliances are also feeling the strain of load-shedding. If your fridge breaks down while you are away all of your food will rot. Have a trusted person check on your appliances and do not stock up on food before leaving. Storing frozen foods with a trusted person is also advisable. Candles and lamps pose a fire hazard. There are great alternative light sources. Affordable solar lamps are available at various outlets. It is good alternative to invest in solar lighting. Ensure that you don’t just rely on cell phone communication as cell towers could also feel the strain of load-shedding. Your neighbour is your closest support. Get to know them and assist each other.