 ELUKWATINI – A 54-year-old man has been arrested in connection with shooting a woman 16 times. The incident happened at Phola Section in Tjakastaad, near Badplaas, on Tuesday. According to Sgt Peace Mbokane, Elukwatini police spokesman, Moses Jabulani Gama (54) has been apprehended by local police for an alleged crime of murder. He said the arrest came after an incident of murder which took place on Tuesday at about 13:00 at Tjakastad, Phola Section. “The police received a call from a community member, who was reporting on the condition of anonymity, that a certain man had just shot a woman who was sitting inside her car with a friend. According to the whistle-blower, this sad incident happened after an abrupt argument between the suspect and the victim,” said Mbokane. Read More: Church join hands with police to fight crime He said when the officials arrived at the scene, they found a woman who was lying inside a red Hyundai and there was blood everywhere in the car. “They started investigating the scene and a number of spent cartridges as well as a live round were found. When the body of the woman was inspected, 16 gunshot wounds were noticed on her upper body. Information at the police’s disposal revealed that the deceased had had an argument with the suspect (Gama) over unanswered calls and ignored social media
messages,” added Mbokane. He said while the police were busy gathering further information at the scene of the crime, the suspect, (Gama) turned himself in at the police station where he reported that he had shot a woman at Tjakastad. “When asked about the motive behind the killing, Gama informed the police that he was too traumatised at that stage to divulge all the details that led to the shooting. The suspect was then kept in the holding cells, after his constitutional rights were read to him,” added Mbokane. Gama appeared in the Eerstehoek Magistrate Court on Wednesday to answer on the charge of murder. At the time of going to press, the verdict was unknown.