Most people regard their vehicles as their pride and joy. Some are so attached to them and would hate to see their vehicle in a bad condition, however, we do not plan accidents; they happen when you least expect them. Watch: Charlie Nsanama demonstrating on how to fix a dent  Just imagine for some reason you forget to pull the handbrake of your precious vehicle. It rolls and hit a pole, ouch! Imagine those nasty dents in your vehicle. Or somebody accidentally scratches or dents your car in a parking lot at a shopping a mall. Whatever the reason, you need not let dents ruin your life.  For many years the Dent Doctor, situated at 18 Stinkhout Cres, West Acres, Mbombela, has been assisting motorists in maintaining the cosmetic appearance of their vehicles, thereby maintaining their values. According to Charlotte Heymans, financial director at Dent Doctor in Mbombela, what sets them apart from their competitors is the excellent personalised customer service on which Dent Doctor thrives on brilliantly. “The owner of the company is personally involved with every client. We have our in-house paintless dent removal (PDR) technician. And we thrive on superior sophisticated high-end technology.”  “We offer the best minor and major auto-body repair service to our customers. Our services include paintless dent removal, full panel beating, accident repair, hail damage repair, professional buff and polishing to all surfaces, panel replacements and repair, and rust spot damage repair,” said Heymans.  This outlet in Mbombela with 15 years experience is authorized to repair advanced and major accident damaged vehicles and carry manufacturer and insurance approvals for such work. They have 55 well-trained staff that does the work diligently for customers satisfaction.  Their services include: • Spray painting • Computerised colour-matching to all areas of the vehicle • Panel fitment and replacement • Panel beating • Bumper repairs • Chassis straightening • Replacement and repair of all mag wheels • Replacement of all glass panels • Aircon regas and leaks detection • Diagnostic checking • Service indicator resetting • Electric fault-finding ⦁ Touch-ups
⦁ Full polishes
⦁ Windscreen chip repairs
⦁ Bumper scuffs
⦁ Paint protection.   