 Mustangs is the last stop on this year’s The Great Nelspruit Post Pub Crawl, which takes place on September 28, and its spacious dance floor is the ideal way to end off this annual spectacular event. The main stage will play host to pub crawlers after all eight pubs on this year’s route have been visited. Mustangs will also be where people who have earned the most stamps will be awarded with spot prizes, and the winners announced in the following categories: best dressed and the best team spirit.  A babelaas hamper will be handed over, and a special prize will be given out for the best drinking buddies.  This whirlwind affair has grown to be widely supported by Mbombelans, who have cultivated a reputation for their hospitality and camaraderie while visiting their favourite watering holes and tucking into mouthwateringly delicious pub grub. Mustangs is still in process of obtaining its liquor licence, so participants can fill up their cooler boxes at nearby Rooikat Liquors between 15:00 and 18:00. This establishment has generously offered to stay open until then and has thrown in a number of specials and a free cocktail for pub crawlers before Citybug heads off again to the next destination. For only R100 crawlers can shuttle between pubs courtesy of Citybug. Shuttles will depart from Mustangs from 10:00 till 18:00 and a stopover at Rooikat between 15:00 and 18:00 is included.  To add a truly Lowveld feel to your pub crawl, get on the bus, head to one of the eight pubs, then slip on your dancing shoes and head to Mustangs for a rip-roaring, rhythm-filled conclusion to this year’s The Great Nelspruit Post Pub Crawl. ALSO READ: Glitz and glamour at Hoërskool Bergvlam’s matric 2019 farewell Make sure to get your crawl map in Nelspruit Post from 25 September. Get a copy of it at any of the participating pubs, Rooikat Liquors, Citybug or Mustangs. Also stand a chance to win a MTN rugby jersey in the lucky draw at Mustangs. Prizes are sponsored by Distell, MTN and Nelspruit Post. The Pub Crawl encourages responsible drinking and  NO UNDER 18s are allowed.