As a health and safety professional, you’re always looking for relevant training to set yourself ahead of the rest, and help in your drive to bring your company closer to “zero harm”. The issue is which of the various options should you choose? It’s an international qualification. Samtrac is a division of NOSA, a company that specialises in offering global safety, health, environmental and quality (SHEQ) training products and services.  • It provides the learner with both foundational and fundamental knowledge critical to occupational health, safety and environmental (HSE) management. • Samtrac covers the integration of HSE management and students are taken through the practical process of implementing and managing an HSE management system using the PDCA cycle. • It is accredited by both the International Institute of Risk and Safety Management (IIRSM) and the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH). • This means that students who successfully complete Samtrac courses and who have a suitable level of practical experience will be eligible to apply for technician membership at both IOSH (TechIOSH) and Saiosh (TechIOSHSA). Samtrac offers both a classroom and an online e-learning course • Introduction to SAMTRAC: Learners will be able to control basic HSE hazards and risks at the point of action and in the execution of day-to-day operational tasks associated with designated job related duties. • Samtrac: The purpose of this course is to equip the learner with the ability to plan, implement and maintain an HSE management system.  • Advanced Samtrac: It is an extension of the Samtrac suite of courses delivering on the HSE industry’s need for an extended qualification. Advanced Samtrac provides established HSE professionals with a combination of progressive HSE theory, as required to understand the practical application of complex HSE concepts, and a self-study assignment focusing on the application of the HSE methodology. • Samtrac construction: It equips each learner to build construction-specific health and safety knowledge onto the knowledge gained from attending Samtrac (or an equivalent health and safety course). This will assist the learner to implement a construction health and safety management plan. Samtrac recently converted into an interactive online training course called Samtrac International. This allows you to complete your training in your own time without needing to attend classes. With this e-learning option, organisations can set one standard of training across their operations as it incorporates local legislation, and is available in multiple languages (English, French, Mandarin, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish).  In this way, your company can be assured that its employees, across all operations, are equipped with fundamental knowledge critical to HSE management. Still have some questions? That’s okay – contact our NOSA Mbombela coordinator, Cindy Spoelstra on or .   