 Retired Kruger National Park game ranger, Mike “MaXangane” English, who dedicated his life to conservation, passed away last week.  KNP staff members expressed awe and respect for the kind family man who also dedicated himself to conservation for 37 years. Mike, in turn, affectionately called the field rangers “the unsung heroes of conservation”. Mike was born in Zambia in 1934. He finished his school education at the St Johns College in Johannesburg where his father had also received his schooling. ALSO READ: SANParks announces 14th annual National Parks Week As a young man he moved to Louis Trichardt and became a pupil farmer. Mike spent nine years on a farm along the Great Limpopo, where he lived in a tent. He later moved to Plaston near White River, where he managed a citrus farm for two years. Mike and his wife, André, eventually became the new couple at the Shangoni outpost about one kilometre from the Kruger National Park’s western border.  Mike was given the nickname “MaXangane” by his staff, which was also the name of a large elephant tusker in the park. During his retirement speech a few years ago, he reminisced about anti-poaching incidents at the farewell function. What stood out was the remarkable mutual trust between him and one specific ranger, Sgt Aaron Nkuna. ALSO READ: UPDATE: SANParks’ latest comment on impala video When Aaron was shot and badly wounded by poachers, he stayed at Mike’s quarters while he recovered for two weeks. The memorial service for Mike will take place at the church in Skukuza staff village on Friday September 27 at 11:00. Former game ranger Johan van Graan, described Mike as an “absolutely meticulous person that was always friendly but very strict.” He added that Mike was extremely neat and that you would never catch him without shiny shoes.  “He taught me everything I know. Mike taught me that you never, but never, get out of your vehicle in the park without taking your rifle with you. He taught me to not just lift a log or stone because there could be a snake or scorpion there.” Johan said that even though Mike was a straight shooter person, that he would always praise you for doing something right. “One of our biggest trees were felled.”