 SuperSport United and Cape Town City played to a thrilling 3-3 draw on Saturday night at Mbombela Stadium The Absa Premiership game did not produce quality football in the first half, with both sides’ defences letting them down. The fact that the lead changed hands three times and six goals were scored in the match made it a thriller for the 3 595 spectators, who got good value for their money on a cool Lowveld spring evening. SuperSport scored in the fourth minute when Bradley Grobler was gifted possession in the Cape Town City box. He passed to Sipho Mbule, who put the shot past Peter Leeuwenburgh. Just as it seemed United were dominating proceedings, poor defending gave City the equaliser off the boot of Thabo Nodada. The home team’s defence gave their opponents too much space. Kermit Erasmus made the perfect pass and Nodada wrong-footed four defenders to score a brilliant goal. Cape Town City then took the lead in the 17th minute. The visitors attacked from the own goal area and moved the ball upfield at pace, with an Erasmus header going past Ronwen Williams. The lead lasted just four minutes before Grobler took advantage of a miskick by Keanu Cupido, stole the ball and rocketed it into the City net. The half-time score was 2-2, with both sets of fans making a remarkable amount of noise for a small crowd. Technically it was not great football, with defensive errors playing the biggest role in the four goals. But it was a thrill-a-minute, action-packed game.\ Cape Town City took the lead for the second time just nine minutes into the second half. Grobler failed to clear the ball without an opponent close to him. Nodada gratefully accepted possession and had plenty of time to choose where he was going to put the ball in the net. United drew level nine minutes later. Thamsanqa Gubuza chested a pass, turned and put the ball past Leeuwenburgh to make it 3-3. Bradley Ralani had the chance to clinch the match for City but his powerful shot went straight into the hands of Williams in the 88th minute. The score was a fair refection of the game. Both sides played attractive, attacking soccer. The quality and precision of play definitely lifted after half-time. Supersport United ended the weekend in fourth place on the Absa Premiership log. Cape Town City are eighth. SuperSport will play Golden Arrows on Tuesday November 5 at 19:30 at Mbombela Stadium.