 The case in which Bruce Whitehead-King (43) was found in possession of weapons and ammunition was postponed in Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Friday for further investigation.    Provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, said the case  has been postponed to October 2.  Whitehead-King was arrested when a large number of firearms and ammunition was discovered at his residence on Wednesday. The discovery is estimated to be worth over R3 million. ALSO READ: Man behind bars due to illegal guns According to Hlathi, police received an anonymous tip-off and started with an investigation in collaboration with Bossies Community Justice.    “He will remain in custody and he will appear for a proper bail application. A total of 121 guns and over 12 712 rounds of ammunition were discovered on Wednesday at the suspect’s home, a farmhouse in the Uitkyk area. Of the 121 firearms, 109 are subject of investigation and are not registered in his name. The other 12 guns are registered in his name and we are currently investigating them too. He is facing charges relating to the Firearms Control Act,” he said. Hlathi added that these charges also include the weapons being stored in an illegal manner. Sources close to the investigation said there was “a handful” of antique or collectable firearms. Some had permits in Whitehead-King’s late father’s name. Hlathi said he cannot reveal further information since the case is under investigation.    “The comments that are making rounds on social media are very much regrettable and we request the community to allow the police to focus on the investigation,” he added. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Illegal firearms found at Uitkyk MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Gabisile Shabalala, applauded the police for instantly acting on a tip-off received from the community. According to Shabalala, this will encourage other community members to continue working with the police in the fight against crime in the province and the country as a whole. She also said the police alone will not win the war on crime, but community participation is critical in order to bring the perpetrators of crime to book.