 WHITE RIVER – Hospice White River is a charity making a difference in the lives of patients and their families. Sadly, they are in desperate need of funds. Hospice White River provides professional palliative care to patients of any age, religion and race. This involves professional nursing care, emotional and spiritual support tailored to the patient’s needs and wishes. Support is provided to the patient’s loved ones as well. Also read: Alexia faces extremely long flight home to Russia The organisation, like many other non-profit organisations, is experiencing financial difficulties and Hospice is making an appeal to the community for donations. At any one time, Hospice may have up to 35 patients in their care. Each one costs the organisation approximately R2 500 per month. Its average monthly running costs are around R80 000. There is a misconception that the organisation is part of a large national body, but this is not so. Hospice is solely reliant on donations and raises all of its own funds. “We have been privileged in past years to receive funding from the National Lottery Commission, but have not received funding for two years,” said fundraiser Andrea Matthews. This places Hospice in a perilous position. Also read: Artist recognised for her remarkable talent People can assist Hospice in several ways. Matthews said they have chosen to focus on an initiative, affordable for everybody and of little effort. This campaign is known as the Candle of Compassion. They invite people to pledge R50 or more per month on an ongoing basis. “This will help the organisation with its valuable work with patients facing the challenges of life-threatening illness.” To make a pledge, people can either set up a stop order or a recurring monthly payment to Hospice. Banking details: Hospice White River, FNB White River, Branch code 270 552, Cheque account number 6202 566 8304. Tax receipts are available on request. Enquiries: Hospice White River on 013-750-3044 or whiteriverhospice@tiscali.co.za.