Crossing Centre management has been left speechless at the generosity of local businesses – as well as the community’s interest – regarding its 16th birthday “Giving back to our community” initiative. Look out for Crossing Centre’s special birthday coupon insert in Lowvelder on Tuesday October 8 and diarise to join in the celebrations at the centre on October 11 and 12.Nominations now open to individuals and non-NPOs.  “What started out as a R500 000 donation from us has literally exploded to a donation fund of now well over  R1 million,” said centre manager, Anita McGarry.  “This means that we are now able to open up nominations to include individuals and informal organisations that are not registered as NPOs, and it also means that we are now able to accept nominations and direct donations for animal welfare organisations.”  In order to accommodate these new nominations, the closing date has been extended by a week, to Friday October 11. If you know of an unsung hero who performs a charitable service in their immediate community, whether it be giving free after-hours tutoring for a gifted scholar, or perhaps a teacher who is using his/her own funds to purchase much-needed learning aids for early childhood development, or a family who have perhaps opened their home to an orphaned child or children, do not hesitate to nominate them today. This may just get them the financial assistance they need to keep going, or expand the scope of their good work. “Animals in need are very close to our hearts too,” said McGarry. “We were thrilled when Kellaprince, one of our tenants, also approached us with a donation, but one that was specifically intended for an animal welfare organisation. “We had already received many nominations for various animal welfare organisations when we originally launched our initiative which had to be put aside, but with Kellaprince’s donation, we are now, happily, able to accept nominations for animals in need too.” Any readers wishing to donate specifically to the animal welfare fund
can do so via direct EFT to:

BVR Ing Prokureurs Trustrekening
Nedbank Acc. No 1468102656
Branch 146805
Reference CROS1/0001/Animal/your name Proof of payment should then be emailed to info@crossingnelspruit.co.za.      