 MBOMBELA – “Come make joyful music for the Lord.” Not only were these the lyrics of one of the grand finale songs at this year’s Songs of Praise, but also the message that was conveyed during the day.  As always, the praise and worship was led by famous conductor, singer and musician Richard Cock.  The event kicked off with a worship song where the whole congregation, along with all the participants, sang “U Goedheid Heer”.   The UJ choir are currently performing at this year's Songs of Praise. Posted by Laevelder / Lowvelder on Sunday, 25 August 2019 Laerskool Laeveld’s senior choir, , was first on stage, followed up by the local Laudate Choir.  The church’s resident organist, Tobias Kruger, then accompanied Phillip Cox and Donny Bouwer during “A Concerto for Two Trumpets.”  ALSO READ: A holy, joyful sound at Songs of Praise The guest stars of the event, the UJ Choir, were up next. This choir showed why they were crowned world champions at the World Choir Games last year and moved the crowd with heart-warming and chilling renditions of “Prayer of the Children” and “His Eye is on the Sparrow”.  Following this Laudate joined UJ on stage for a mass choir item, “Panis Angelicus”, conducted by Cock, who then also led all the participants and the whole congregation in “O Heer, My God/ How Great Thou Art”.  After the interval the congregation kicked off with “Praise the Lord”. The Lowveld Community Orchestra then took to the stage which led to one of the highlights of the day during “Intermezzo (Agnus Dei)”.  Soloist Kimmy Skoto, who used to tour with André Rieu, moved the congregation to their feet.   Lowvelder is live at this year's Song of Praise where the senior choir of Laerskool Laeveld are performing. Posted by Laevelder / Lowvelder on Sunday, 25 August 2019 All the acts performed once more before Cock moved in behind the conductor podium where he led Laudate, UJ and the orchestra in “Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring.” He then moved in behind the piano and handed over the reigns to Bouwer, who led all the acts in “Oh, Happy Day” which also had the congregation on their feet.  The day ended with “Halle, Halle, Hallelujah!” where everyone, indeed, made a joyful noise to the Lord. ALSO READ: Richard Cock is in the Lowveld