 MBOMBELA – With a jam-packed programme, displays and exhibitions, there was something for every person to enjoy. This year’s theme was “Carnival” and an electrifying atmosphere was tangible throughout the weekend of festivities. The musical line-up had a “local is lekker” theme on Thursday, a sokkie on Friday, a diverse mix on Saturday and a gospel and jazz festival on Sunday.  Three of the biggest highlights this year were the monster trucks, the livestock area and the cultural village, which was a unique offering with all the dancers and traditional healers who entertained the crowds daily. It was the first time ever that monster trucks were part of the event and old and young queued to get closer to these monsters of the road.  The daring and dangerous Le Rich Motorbike Show had visitors gasping for their breath, and on Saturday the wrestling team entertained the crowd. Some had the opportunity to do the unexpected such as swim with crocodiles and others touched snakes for the very first time. The kids’ play area was filled with many games and the youngsters’ excitement could be heard from a distance.  One of the main exhibitors, the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), truly brought their A-game, with an enormous exhibition and live demonstration that took the crowd’s breath away. In the livestock area the public enjoyed horse riding and there were donkey carts in which one could hitch a ride.  The organisers delivered on their promises. There were also activities such as the 4×4 challenge showstopper, exhibitions, a braai competition, wrestling, food to enjoy and many more fun-filled activities for the whole family.
General manager, Jacques Malan said the business sector in farming, forestry, mining, wildlife and tourism was well represented and the latest in innovation was on display. “The show was officially opened with a parade around the show area which included different cultural dancers from across the province. With artists like Juanita du Plessis, Kurt Darren, Lira and even DJ Fresh, crowds danced the night away,” he said. “This year the competitions also attracted a lot of attention and the braai and tart competitions were well attended. With the finals on Saturday, competitors had to fight hard for the first prizes. Kleyn Bietjie Braai were the winners of the braai competition and our tart baker for 2019 was Juanita du Preez. In the art section, Terrence Mabaso walked away with the first prize.” Malan said the Mpumalanga Show team is extremely happy with the feedback they received. “We will soon start with the planning for next year’s show and we already have a few interesting ideas on the drawing board. Gear up and we’ll see you next year from August 27 to 30,” he said. The show did not just celebrate the province’s heritage, it also created opportunities to benefit individuals, stakeholders and the province as a whole.