 Mbombela – A woman accused of kidnapping a baby was granted bail of R3 000 in Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court this week. Sheila Seba Graig (44) was arrested on August 12 and charged for the alleged kidnapping and contravening the Prevention and Combating of Trafficking in Persons Act the next day.The infant was allegedly stolen from Bellville Hospital in Cape Town after the biological mother fell ill giving birth. ALSO READ: Jongman vertel van berou na aanranding op onderwyser The Hawks’ Capt Dineo Sekgotodi said she arrived at the Nelspruit South SAPS Community Service Centre with an affidavit purported to be from the mother. She told the officers that she needed to complete the affidavit to enable her to adopt the child. Graig received bail, subject to the condition of reporting to the Pienaar Police Station once a week and not to have any contact with the child. The matter was remanded to October 30 for further investigation by the Hawks. ALSO READ: Man behind bars due to illegal guns Bushbuckridge – Samuel Malele (39) appeared in Bushbuckridge Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday for murdering his grandmother. On Monday Malele allegedly hacked his grandmother to death with a shovel. He also threatened to kill his uncle who rushed into the house to investigate the strange noises he heard. The accused’s uncle then purportedly went to seek assistance and upon his return found his mother’s lifeless body outside the house.    Police officials were alerted and they swiftly arrested the suspect at the crime scene. Brigadier Leonard Hlathi, the SAPS provincial spokesman reported in his statement that the suspect allegedly murdered the victim after accusing her of practicing witchcraft against him. The suspect was remanded in custody and appeared in court yesterday for a formal bail application. ALSO READ: Meridian Karino celebrates diversity in style Mbombela – Stephan Kloppers (22) appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on August 19 on charges of housebreaking and theft. It is estimated that he stole jewellery valued at R548 000 from the Heuwelsig Complex on April 29 and May 14. Kloppers appeared in court on July 25 and the case was postponed in order to obtain the SAP 69 record of previous convictions.  Stephan Kloppers, the alleged jewel thief.  It is alleged that he is linked to other cases of theft in Potchefstroom and Lydenburg. Nelspruit police spokesman, Capt Zandile Gqawa confirmed that the suspect who has not yet pleaded, was remanded in custody. The case was postponed to September 25 for further investigation. 