 A conference to discuss plans and solutions to resolve gender-based violence within communities was hosted by the MEC for social development, Blessing Thandi Shongwe at Mbombela Stadium on Friday.    Shongwe led discussions on the significant role that Amakhosikati (wives of traditional leaders) can play in fighting this scourge. She also outlined the department’s plans to address the issue. ALSO READ: Meridian Karino celebrates diversity in style “I am calling on the law enforcement agencies to deal harshly with the perpetrators of gender-based violence against women, children and people with albinism which is now a national crisis. I am happy to announce that that we have formed a partnership with Amakhosikati to assist the province in its quest to fight against gender-based violence. “They will also distribute dignitary packs to girls in quintile one schools around the province,” she said.
Chairman of regional structure, Inkosikati Ethel Nkosi, said the discussions also focused on the abuse that widows face from their in-laws.    “We want to urge women to register their marriages as customary after their lobola negotiations and celebrations of the union are done. During the event, they take pictures which can be used as proof of their union. This is so that if their husband dies and their in-laws decide to recognise the ex-wife as the wife then they will be able to show that they were married.” Nkosi also said to help fight gender-based violence women have to work together. “If you know of a woman who is being abused and doesn’t speak out, it is your responsibility as the neighbour to say something. You can also visit the local chief’s home and tell them so that they can assist.    “Some of the things that used to happen in our areas we would see them for the first time on TV. We were not informed, now we are working with departments such as social development and local home-based care. They then tell us and we take the matter to the right places,” Nkosi said. She urged the public to report any incidents of abuse.