 Deputy President David Mabuza was among the patrons who attended the Mpumalanga Show 2019 at Mbombela Stadium over the weekend.    He interacted with the public and visited the different stalls, showcasing some of the best of the province has to offer in agriculture, forestry, wildlife, tourism and mining. He said Mpumalanga is known for its agricultural sector and the contribution that this sector makes to the broader economy. “We thank all those involved in the agriculture and forestry sectors for ensuring that our country remains food-secure. As we embark on the land reform programme, which has gained traction with the resolution of parliament to amend Section 25 of the Constitution to allow for expropriation of land without compensation, we do so to ensure economic growth and continued support to farmers. ALSO READ: 62 year-old victim of Alkmaar attack tells her story “Our agriculture continues to be a pivotal part of our economy. Our forestry gives us timber that supports other sectors like mining, rail and road construction, housing construction, furniture manufacturing, paper and pulp, ecotourism and all other opportunities of agricultural nature. “Linked to this is the role of the tourism sector, which apart from the landscape, flora and fauna of our land is complimented by the beauty of our wildlife, hence the globally known Kruger National Park. Because of this landscape, Mpumalanga continues to attract a number of foreign and domestic tourists that come to enjoy the beauty of this province,” he said. ALSO READ: SANDF chief outlines plans to create food security in South Africa Jacques Malan, from the Mpumalanga Show, said that this year’s turnout was good, although the final attendance figures were not yet available at the time of going to press. “The attendance of schools has exceeded last year’s, and there was a good turnout for the monster trucks.”
Malan said Mabuza’s attendance was a highlight, as was the performance by Dr Rebecca Malope. Her performance on Sunday was her last, as she is retiring. “Rebecca did her last public appearance as an artist and we raised R100 000 towards her pension fund,” he said.