 Mbombela – When it comes to crime you do not want to compare apples with pears. With these provinces being the fifth and sixth most populous in South Africa, you will be able to get a clearer picture of the actual crime in Mpumalanga in comparison to one of its closest neighbours. Many people and tourists frequently visit Limpopo, as it also shares a part of the world-renowned Kruger National Park with our beautiful province. ALSO READ: Developing women’s role in the building industry At an amount of 113 402 reported crimes for the 2018/2019 year, Limpopo has a 0.24 percent higher crime rate than Mpumalanga at 113 125 registered crimes, which is a negligible difference. With regards to contact crimes, murder is 8.23 percent less and the attempted murder rate is 23.49 percent less in Limpopo than in Mpumalanga. However assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm is 6.22 percent higher and common robbery is 10.7 percent higher, with robbery at a residential premises being 21.61 percent greater in Limpopo. ALSO READ: Opening of Lily and Barbrook mines postponed by litigation Sexual offences in general are much higher in Limpopo with 4060 registered transgressions or a crime rate 17 percent higher than its next-door neighbour Mpumalanga. Rape specifically is 20.6 percent more prevalent in Limpopo than in Mpumalanga. Drug-related crimes are rife in Limpopo with 35.89 percent more than in the Mpumalanga province. ALSO READ: VIEW GALLERY Regiments free to march in Barberton streets Mpumalanga might mean “Place of the Rising Sun” with its alluring landscapes and lush green vegetation, but it fails to provide a safe haven for its 4.52 million residents or tourists in general. Limpopo, which is named after the Limpopo River, is also actually a wild torrential river full of crime rapids. Whatever province you pay a visit, it is advisable to be vigilant in your surroundings because neither are safer than the other. In order to not be a victim of crime, you should take proactive crime-preventative measures. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has an online manual for community-based crime prevention, which should be helpful.