 BARBERTON – The incident happened at Long Homes section in Emjindini on Tuesday evening. Bafana Gumede and Martha Gama (43) died on the scene. They leave behind three children, Mpumelelo (29), Tebogo (19) and Lindelwa (9). According to Capt Jabu Ndubane, Barberton police spokesman, they received a call at about 19:30 from neighbours saying that three gunshots had been heard coming from the couple’s house. Ndubane said neighbours told police that they had had an argument. When the police officers arrived at the scene they found the man and his wife lying on the ground with gunshot wounds. The woman had been shot three times in the head and the man had one wound to the head. They were both certified dead on the scene,” confirmed Ndubane. Gumede worked as a bus operator for Buscor and Gama as a correctional officer at Barberton DCS. Read More: Trial of men accused of revenge murder of police officer in court Ndubane said the reason for the shooting was not yet known. She said the police are investigating a case of murder and an inquest docket had been opened. Mesiah Hlungwani, DCS spokesman, said the department was saddened and shocked. He said they were surprised because Gama had never reported any family-related challenges at work or shown any signs of being troubled. She joined the DCS in 2007 as an officer. Upon her death, she had 12 years of service. She was stationed at Town Youth Correctional Centre as an officer posted at the access control gate,” said Hlungwani. He described Gama as a lovely and always smiling person. “The department can confirm that the firearm used on the incident does not belong to the state, it was a private firearm,” Hlungwani added. Also Read: Police officer, taxi driver in court for murder Viani Ndlovu, Buscor spokesman, described Gumede as a hard-working and dedicated employee. We are saddened by his passing. At Buscor, we were looking forward to spending many more years with him. “Our hearts go out to his relatives, friends and colleagues, especially to his children. We wish that they find comfort in the Lord,” said Ndlovu. Gumede joined Buscor in June 2017.