 Silulumanzi (formerly Sembcorp) is an entity stationed up in the air without human beings in control. This is how a frustrated resident, Charm Maine, described the relentless stance of Silulumanzi to not even have discussions about the excessive water accounts residents received the past few months.  ALSO READ:No water in certain areas of Mbombela due to load shedding  “I have been there, but one cannot win. You either pay up or they disconnect your water,” said Maine. In a quick survey Lowvelder did on Facebook to establish how many residents receive accounts that is in some cases 1 100 per cent higher than normal, there were more than 130 responses within 24 hours ranging from areas such as Sonheuwel and Steiltes to KaMagugu and including estates and security complexes. The problem is all over, confirms Thea Rix, who administers the Facebook group, Mbombela Water and Electricity Information. Her own account increased from R472 in February to R1 400 in April.  ALSO READ:Water is life, so protect it Arie van der Walt said according to their latest account they used 260 000 litres costing them R7 000. “We normally use about 10 000 per month. I would like them to show me where 260 000 leaked in my yard!”
Vannessa Alexander said their previous water account was R538, but it shot up this month with more than
1 100 per cent to R5 925. “We tried sorting the issue out, but the cashier was very arrogant and told use there is a leak and that we have to pay.” Also shocked by this month’s bill is Rose-Mare Pretorius. “We are only two people in our household and our normal usage is between nil to about R80 per month. Suddenly this month it is over R900.” “Our bill went from R350 to R2 800 to R8 000. Two plumbers could not find evidence of a leak, but our meter is running wild,” said Nikki Darteh. “We have rerouted the entire water system at a cost of R10 000. Now we are waiting to see if all is fixed.” Steve Schormann, a DA councillor, encouraged people who are having problems to install a second water meter as well as an air release valve. This will ensure that air trapped in the pipes are released before it goes through the water meter causing “spinning” where the meter runs uncontrollable, pushing up the “usage” with a fake reading. Another resident claimed that Silulumanzi cannot be reading his meter as it is underground and not even accessible to him.