 BARBERTON – This comes after the long-serving area commissioner, Solly Netshivazwaulu, was transferred to be the area commissioner of Thohoyandou Correctional Service.
His move left the Barberton area commissioner post vacant and consequently MidJohn Mhlongo was appointed as the acting area commissioner for Barberton Correctional Services.
In his address when announcing the changes, the acting regional commissioner for Limpopo, Mpumalanga and North West (LMN Region), Phiko Mbambo, indicated that Netshivhazwaulu had been brought to Barberton management area in 2012 to stabilise the correctional facilities. Read More: ‘Provision of condoms must be maximised
He said he completed the task with distinction. “He is leaving Barberton’s correctional facilities with a clean audit. This is something that we have been struggling to achieve in this area,” said Mbambo.
He had few words of advice for Mhlongo. “Therefore you must work hard to make sure that you follow his foot step and you continue with the status qou”.
He commended the commitment of Netshivhazwaulu in ensuring that offenders are rehabilitated. It pleases me to know that you are leaving the management area intact and stable. You did your part and we believe that your legacy of being a dedicated correctional officer will be carried forward.” When bidding farewell to his colleagues, Netshivhazwaulu indicated that, when the region approach him with the proposal of deploying him to be the area commissioner of Thohoyandou Management Area, he saw an opportunity of going home to plough back into the community. Subsequently he will spend time with his family as he approaches retirement.
He appreciated the department for trusting him with the biggest management area. I would like to appreciate all the officials who worked very to ensured that the provision of rehabilitation to offenders and ensuring that the security is provided. I love you and I will miss you,” said Netshivhazwaulu. Mhlongo said he is prepared to work with officials and take correctional services in Barberton to the greater heights. All stakeholders who would like to engage the Mhlongo can contact him on 082-882-2508.