 Community safety, security and liaison MEC Pat Ngomane says it is possible for the province to continue reducing deaths and injuries on the road, “If all the stakeholders work together and road users also behave,” he said. A statement by the department notes the province recorded 44 fatalities in 209 road crashes during the Easter period last year. This was a reduction of 30 per cent compared to the same period in 2017. Furthermore 40 road fatal crashes occurred in 2018 while in 2017 there were 30. This represents an increase of 25 per cent. ALSO READ:Jobs in the government are not for sale “The department will also conduct random stop searches, road safety awareness campaigns, and 24/7 concerted 30-kilometre block patrols on identified major routes. Attention will also be paid to roadworthiness of vehicles, driver fitness and overloading, especially of vehicles travelling to the various ports of entry.” Block patrols and other roadblocks with a specific focus on vehicle and driver fitness will be implemented throughout the Easter period. The department will further implement alcohol operations that will target those who will take to the road while they are intoxicated. Rest stops will also be conducted, with a specific focus on long-distance drivers. ALSO READ:N4 ‘killer road’ to get more policing The operations will focus on the routes that have had the most crashes and fatalities occur on them during the previous holiday periods. “The law enforcers will be hard at work to ensure that everyone arrives safely at their destinations. We are also reminding road users that they also have responsibility to ensure their own safety. We are appealing to motorists to obey the road rules and also use the road with due diligence, so that the number of crashes is drastically brought down,” he said. The MEC and SAPS provincial commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, will also visit various operations across the province, including ports of entry such as Lebombo and Oshoek border posts.