 The event was organised by Jacques Lombard from Timeless Productions. Lombard is widely regarded as a specialist in his field and boasts a wealth of experience in showcasing local talent.  Thirty exhibitors included workshops by Chef Pieter from Tindlovu, makeup tips from MUD Makeup and vocal performances from Zané Jansen van Rensburg and afro-jazz outfit, The Buddies.  More than 16 local models walked the runway in stunning wedding gowns including Mrs Africa, Lucia Ochan, Mrs Mpumalanga, Morongwa Dlamini and Vanessa Hollenbach, who wore her crown as Miss Mpumalanga with style and grace. Sue-Mandie Strydom, Poppy Ramodibe and Jenni Oliveira. Marcia Keen from Witbank was master of ceremonies the event and had attendees engaging with the exhibitors. The bridal and evening gowns were supplied by Bride&Co, Vixen and LVB Bridal boutique. Zané Jansen van Rensburg belting out the hits. Jansen van Rensburg’s soaring vocals held the attendees spellbound and The Buddies’ soulful jazz renditions were an example of the multitude of talent the Lowveld has to offer. ALSO READ: Through education, we still transform SA Jansen van Rensburg said of the duo, “As a performer, I think it’s important that other artists are given a platform to showcase their abilities and group members Clement Masilela and Khangi Nekhumbe’s performance added another dimension to the proceedings.”  The attendees were equally swept away by her vocals as she performed a Whitney Houston classic before delivering her take on the well-known Vicky Sampson number, “African Dream”. ALSO READ: Through education, we still transform SA Lombard promised that next year’s will be be even better. “Mpumalanga must fasten their seat belts for bigger and better productions to entertain our community.”  The Buddies; Clement Masilela and Khangi Nekhumbe. There were audible ‘oohs and ah’s’ from the guests as the models took to the ramp and showed off the creative designs. From a somewhat late start, everything proceeded well and the exhibitors’ stalls were occupied by curious attendees who wanted more information on the services on offer.