 MBOMBELA – The city experienced a wave of crime over the weekend. Capt Zandile Gqawa, spokesman for Nelspruit SAPS, said that the most prevalent crimes were residential burglaries spread throughout the city. “A number of residential burglaries were reported. The areas which were targeted include Sonheuwel, West Acres, Valencia, Stonehenge and Ehmke Street,” she said. A Bester Street business owner was stabbed during a robbery on Saturday afternoon. According to Gqawa, three men entered the business. One was armed with a knife while his accomplices each drew a firearm. The business owner was stabbed during the robbery. No arrests have been made. A number of burglaries and cases of vehicle theft were reported. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Truck driver in shooting incident succumbs to injury A 37-year-old woman was also robbed by two men at an ATM on Saturday. “One of the men pretended to greet the hapless woman, while his partner snatched her handbag,” Gqawa said. The bag contained cash, a watch and a phone. The bag-snatching duo blended easily into the crowd and disappeared from view. Shoppers in Sonheuwel had their windscreen smashed and goods taken out of the car. The thief made off with a gazebo, chairs, Tupperware and a bedding set. A number of cars were also stolen. The vehicle was stolen from a dealership in Mbombela. ALSO READ: Murder and suicide horrify community Another vehicle was stolen at the Valencia Flats on Sunday after the owner woke up at 01:00 to an empty space where the vehicle had been parked. Gqawa said, “The car was a Toyota with Swaziland registration plates.” A white Toyota Land Cruiser, registration HZB 073 MP, was stolen sometime between Friday and Monday morning outside a dealership in Mbombela. The vehicle has not been recovered, according to police. Police said that the vehicle has still not been recovered. ALSO READ: Man stabbed in his own bed in Mbombela A gold Toyota Fortuner was stolen at 16:00 on Friday. “The car’s registration is DST 483 MP, and the owner is appealing to anyone who may have information on its whereabouts to contact police.” One car owner is sure to breathe a sigh of relief after his car was found at an abandoned house in Matsulu. Bossies Community Justice general manager, Albert Gryvenstein said, “The car was stolen in Percy Fitzpatrick Street on Sunday night and abandoned in Matsulu. No arrests have been made in connection with the vehicle yet.” ALSO READ: “The South Africa we hope for” – Dr Mathews Phosa A motorcyclist woke on Thursday to find that his bike had been stolen in Cameron Street. • Provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, confirmed a farm attack just outside Badplaas on Friday evening. He said that, at about 22:30 a family of three adults and two children (aged 66, 60, 36, five and three) were having a braai outside when five unknown men came around the corner. “They were wearing balaclavas and gloves,” Hlathi said. “It appears that they were armed with homemade guns. They tied up the victims and ransacked the chalet.” The victims were not harmed. The suspects took a TV, food and clothing and electronic equipment, cellphones and a laptop. They also stole a red Toyota Hilux double cab. After they left the scene, one freed himself and alerted the farm owner. Police have urged residents to be vigilant. ALSO READ: City takes hands to aid Mozambique The vehicle was fitted with a tracking device and Matrix picked the vehicle up in the Mbombela area. The vehicle was spotted between Mbombela and White River. Tracking agents and SAPS gave chase. The suspects abandoned the vehicle in the Plaston area and fled into the bushes. The vehicle was recovered with all the stolen property. No arrests have been made.