 Yeah right! If you believe this, you have just crashed your first obstacle and now you will have to pick up your own bike. What – you need help? Nope, you’re on your own! Speaking of magnificent routes and expert training, and one cannot not mention the name of Sabie Valley Rider Academy owner, Thomas Böhm.  “I can ride all these obstacles of the GS, but do it under pressure and against time, and it becomes a complete new ball game,” he said when I spoke to him at the annual Sabie GS Challenge on Saturday April 6. The Sabie GS Challenge event now also accommodates a qualifying round for the regional GS Trophy competition. “There are actually three competitions being run concurrently,” said Thomas. ALSO READ: Graskop Gorge Lift Co reaches great heights “It’s the Sabie GS Challenge, the GS Trophy qualifier and the Black Route Finisher Cap. To compete in the latter the rider has to ride all the routes, do the GPS challenge and all the various skills challenges.  It is a tough one!”The fact that the Sabie GS is also a GS Trophy qualifier, speaks volumes for the standard of the Sabie event which Thomas has been organising for the past 15 years – yes, that many! This event is for GS riders only. It’s hard riding with the intention to push and develop the GS riders’ skill and capacity. “It is interesting for me to observe team dynamics because although this is an individual event sometimes you cannot ride certain areas of the routes and riders are left with no option but to support one another in order for all to finish the route.”It’s all about the spirit of GS and what the GSs can do or not.  After completion of the last challenges at Hops Hollow, the riders had to travel back to Misty Mountain via the old Harbour Road which, rumour has it, can be especially brutal in wet weather and misty conditions. This event was held at Misty Mountain (HQ), but some routes and challenges were contested around and at Hops Hollow. And of course this year, the weather proved particularly challenging. Ninety competitors, 17 of whom also competed in the regional qualifier, braved the weather, the routes and the various obstacles. The event offered a green, red and black route.  Each one offered a particular set of challenges depending on the rider’s skills level. The weather conditions of course increased the severity of these on-route challenges. Despite this though, the spirit among all riders were high and jovial and although Thomas would love to see more lady riders at these events, I was quite surprised at the number of women who did in fact participate. I conclude with comments from one of the participants.  Wayne Lesch said, “Certainly one of the best organised BMW motorcycle events in the country. From the time of arrival where everything was well laid out – it was one smooth operation. Even the weather could not dampen the spirits. But the riding was what we came to do and it was some of the best and challenging ever.  The skills challenges were well planned, and the scoring was fair, with little or no complaints. “This year also saw the addition of being one of the regional qualifiers for the BMW GS Trophy. Participants had the opportunity to qualify for the GS Trophy Final in September in Dullstroom. Overall an excellent event with superb technical, medical and mechanical support.” 1. Allan Muir – 331
2. Jaap van Hofwegen – 355
3. Eugene Fourie – 362 1. Christelle van der Meulen – 854
2. Liesl Geyser – 859
3. Linda Steyn – 870 1. Alan Muir – 306 (points)
2. Rudi Pieters – 329
3. Dalein Heyl – 384 1. Liesl Geyser – 766
2. Christelle van der Meulen – 772
3. Nicole Burman – 1 388. ALSO READ: Get your adventure fix in the Lowveld