 The Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT) had the opportunity to look back on its achievements, and discuss ideas and future plans during its AGM at Emnotweni Arena last Wednesday.    Linda Grimbeek, chief operating officer, gave a presentation about the ideas the chamber has, its past achievements and explained how the chamber plans to achieve its goals. ALSO READ:Tony Wake inspire locals during meet-greet-event It was also announced that Oupa Pilane will continue to be the president and TJ Maré remains chairman of KLCBT.
Dr André Hattingh, was the guest speaker. He is the founder of Pediatric Care Africa. They are assisting the people of Mozambique who were affected by Cyclone Idai.   Pediatric Care Africa is a non-profit organisation. It provides life-saving assistance and hope to unfortunate children in our local communities and throughout Africa. Hattingh studied in the United States. He has worked in various countries including, Switzerland, Malawi, Rwanda, Zambia and the DRC. ALSO READ:Röhlig-Grindrod’s informative presentation at KLCBT networking breakfast He shared with the guests on how they are planning to help people in Mozambique and how people can assist.
Hattingh said he decided to do what he does after he worked in various countries and saw the needs of the people.    “I was planning to be a neurosurgeon, but I changed my mind after I saw the situation that women were facing in Rwanda. “This is where I started moving around in different countries. Later in life I decided to retire from medicine and I moved to South Africa.  I realised that I can diagnose then prescribe, but could not provide the medicine to the patients,” he explained. He said the organisation must buy medicine outside SA and then distribute in the areas affected. “We have to make sure that the medicine is in a language that the patients and doctors can read. It would also be a challenge to try and get a truck filled with medicine through the border gates,” he said.  He also highlighted that the situation is bad for those affected by the cyclone. Hattingh said even if it appears to be green in pictures, the people cannot eat grass.