 “This year’s Safari will mark the debut of the highly anticipated all-new Jeep Gladiator on Moab’s scenic and demanding trails. “To celebrate, we are showcasing six fun and ultra-capable new truck-based Jeep concept vehicles that are certain to turn heads and delight the crowd.” “Customisation is one of the highest priorities for Jeep brand enthusiasts. This is why we have proactively developed a portfolio of more than 200 exclusive parts and accessories for the all-new Jeep Gladiator,” said Steve Beahm, head of parts and service (Mopar) and passenger car brands, FCA in North America. ALSO READ: 4×4 club at Oribi Mountain Farm “This portfolio is backed by a factory warranty and has been put through tens of thousands of hours of development, testing and validation, providing our customers a great array of products and peace of mind. At the 2019 Easter Jeep Safari, we will inspire our customers by showcasing just a fraction of what is currently available in our catalogue as well as some conceptual accessories that might make it into production in the near future.”  The Jeep Wayout concept is a true overlanding vehicle that takes advantage of the all-new Gladiator’s class-leading payload to allow adventure seekers to go far off the beaten path. The Jeep Wayout is a functional concept that showcases a full rooftop tent and custom, large sprawling canopy. The Wayout’s body-armored exterior features a new Gator Green colour that will be available on production Gladiator models.  A custom bed rack with an integrated ladder carries the rooftop tent that sleeps two comfortably, while the 270-degree awning with amber LED task lighting helps travellers set up camp when the day is done. For added convenience, two custom-fit auxiliary fuel tanks are integrated into the bedsides. Also, an ARB on-board air system with a body-mounted quick-disconnect air supply line allows adventurers to travel further off the grid.  For additional capability, a Jeep Performance Parts 2-inch lift kit increases ground clearance on top of 17-inch steel wheels that are hugged by 37-inch mud-terrain tyres, providing a distinct retro feeling harking back the original Willys pickups that paved the way for modern Jeep trucks. Furthermore, a 12 000-lb Warn winch and Jeep Performance Parts snorkel help overcome multiple obstacles – both wet and dry.  The Jeep Wayout is powered by the award-winning 3,6-litre Pentastar V6 engine and mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission. Designed with the desert lifestyle in mind, the Jeep Flatbill concept is another fun look at the all-new Gladiator, mixed with the extreme thrills of the Motocross world – resulting in an unmistakable, loud and rowdy appearance that serves as the ultimate hauler for an array of toys. The Jeep Flatbill is a truck dedicated to dirt bike riding through-and-through and is fully equipped to handle transport of dirt bikes for any off-road adventure. Dynatrac Pro-Rock 60 front and rear axles plus an Off-Road Evolution custom 4-inch lift kit help the Flatbill tackle any obstacle.  Large rear bypass shocks along with 20-inch wheels have been added, as well as 40-inch tires – the first time on any Jeep Gladiator – combining to provide superior traction and off-road performance. Inside, bright bed-lined floors plus custom-trimmed seats create a fun and sporty environment. The Jeep Flatbill is powered by the 3.6-liter Pentastar V6 engine with a cold-air Mopar intake and mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission. Starting with a 1968 M-715, this Gladiator-based military vehicle was re-imagined with design and functional improvements to its chassis, drivetrain and cargo configurations, resulting in a truly capable showpiece. The M-715 Five-Quarter’s off-road capability has been enhanced by reinforcing the original frame and replacing the leaf springs with a heavy-duty link/coil suspension system.  Additionally, the front axle has been pulled forward two inches and replaced with a Dynatrac Pro-rock 60 front axle and a Dynatrac Pro-rock 80 axle in the rear, while 20-inch beadlock wheels are wrapped with large 40-inch tires. The Jeep J6 is a Rubicon customized in a two-door configuration, maximizing cargo space with a large, six-foot functional bed “box” area that is 12 inches longer than the standard Jeep Gladiator bed. A production Jeep Performance Parts 2-inch lift kit works with aggressive 37-inch tires to add extra trail clearance. Additional modifications defend the Jeep J6 against off-road obstacles, including a prototype 2-inch steel stinger bar that bolts to the Rubicon front bumper and rock rails customized with 2-inch steel tubes welded to the standard Jeep Gladiator rails.  The concept hard top is removable, and classic Jeep J6 badging is swapped in on the tailgate and side fenders. The look of the early 1980s-era CJ8 Scrambler is recreated with prototype Punk’N Metallic Orange and Nacho body-side stripes running from the front panels to the bed, and a matching hood graphic. The white exterior is crowned with a freedom top painted in vintage amber, continuing the retro feel. The Jeep Performance Parts 17-inch slot wheels are customized in a concept bronze to tie in with the exterior color theme.  A 2-inch Jeep Performance Parts lift kit helps accommodate large, 37-inch tires and tough Jeep Performance Parts rock rails feature a non-slip grip. The 3.6-liter engine is augmented with a Mopar cold-air intake and cat-back exhaust. The open-air potential of the Jeep Gladiator – unlike any other offered by a production mid-size truck is realized through Jeep Performance Parts 2-inch round steel tube doors, a mesh sunbonnet that provides cover while keeping the top-down feel, and tie-down straps that secure the windshield when lowered.  Built on more than 75 years of legendary heritage, Jeep is the authentic SUV with class-leading capability, craftsmanship and versatility for people who seek extraordinary journeys. The Jeep brand delivers an open invitation to live life to the fullest by offering a full line of vehicles that continue to provide owners with a sense of security to handle any journey with confidence. ALSO READ: Join the Lowveld 4×4 Club for some adrenalin-pumping action