 High traffic volumes is expected this Easter weekend as holiday-makers and workers travel from Gauteng to Mpumalanga and Mozambique. Statistics indicate that the Easter weekend sees the biggest surge in traffic volumes on this route, with traffic conditions expected to peak as follows:
Thursday 18 April – 12:00 – 22:00
Friday 19 April – 08:00 – 14:00
Monday 22 April – 11:00 – 22:00 In anticipation of these high volumes, Trans African Concessions (TRAC) will again boost its efforts to accommodate the influx of traffic and ensure that the N4, east of Tshwane, stays safe and congestion free. This is one of the driving factors of the TRAC N4 Easter Road Safety Awareness and Swift Response Campaign, held annually at Alzu Petroport, near Middelburg, and other strategic locations along the 570 km route. The first stage of the campaign will see TRAC hold a road safety activation on Friday at Alzu to interact with members of the public to generate road safety awareness, offer a well-deserved and proper rest stop (including free coffee and massages) and educate them about TRAC’s 24-hour Helpdesk and TRACAssist – both of which will be on full alert throughout the Easter holiday. On April 18, 19 and 22, emergency services and TRACAssist units will be stationed at strategic points on the route, from early in the morning until late in the evening, to reduce response times to roadside emergencies and incidents. The stations will be at Bronkhorstspruit, Alzu (only on April 22), Middelburg Plaza, Milly’s, Kia Ora, Hectorspruit and the Matola Weighbridge in Mozambique. Each one and will serve as the central dispatch centre for their various sections of the N4 Toll Route. TRACAssist and the TRAC 24-hour Helpdesk will lead this initiative, with the latter being the communications’ hub. The TRAC Helpdesk is the first to be alerted of incidents on the road and therefore plays a vital role in this project. Other participating emergency services include private and public ambulance services and paramedics, Fire and Rescue, Provincial Traffic, SAPS and pathology units. TRAC will once again work with the Lebombo Border Control Operational Coordinating Committee to assist with traffic management measures en route to the border post. This will be done through the provision of signage and other logistical requirements. The border will be open 24 hours a day from 16 to 26 April 2019 and road users are urged to plan their trip accordingly, bearing in mind the heavy traffic volumes expected along the route and at the international crossing. To avoid traffic backlogs, all roadworks will be suspended for the long weekend. There will also be no Stop/Go’s or lane closures at construction sites throughout the route. However, all construction areas are still deemed active and road users are urged to be cautious and obey road signage. The safety and wellbeing of the N4 Toll Route’s road users is TRAC’s primary concern and we urge everyone using our beautiful route to make full use of our road safety initiative by calling the TRAC Helpdesk on 0800 87 22 64 in South Africa or +258 84 34 34 34 6 in Mozambique, for fast assistance and response to any problem. Also read: Retired farmer survives home invasion unharmed Debate about trading rhino horn, or not, heading for the Lowveld