 LYDENBURG – A 10-year-old orphan from a school outside town, known as Lydenburg Islamic Centre, was according to reports, so severely beaten by the principal and a teacher that he had to be admitted to Lydenburg Hospital. The incident happened last Thursday. The principal and teacher were arrested later the same day. Capt Alfred Moela told Steelburger/ Lydenburg News that the child was taken to the hospital accompanied by principal, Mohammed Zuhayr Barker (25). The child was brought in for a supposed allergic reaction to his eyes. Moela said hospital personnel grew suspicious when Barker answered all questions on behalf of the child, refusing that the boy give any information himself. The boy was originally from Cape Town, but was sent to the centre to study the Qur’an. https://steelburgernews.co.za/264214/mans-death-shrouded-guns-drugs/ “Hospital personnel told Barker that the child had to be admitted. He insisted on staying with the boy, but the staff refused, stating that it is against hospital policy.” Moela said the staff’s suspicions were confirmed when they accompanied the child to the bathroom. “Personnel said his buttocks was severely swollen and when questioned about it, the child apparently confessed to the beatings taking place at Lydenburg Islamic Centre. He alleged that he was assaulted with a hosepipe on his behind.” Moela said he, accompanied by two other officers, the Department of Social Development and the Family Violence and Child Protection and Sexual Offences units met with hospital staff on Friday. “SAPS and the various other departments agreed that an investigation will be conducted and officers were dispatched to the said school. Five other learners between the ages of eight and 20 came forward and admitted to also being allegedly beaten by Barker and teacher, Anees Cader (23). The school is similar to that of a boarding school,” Moela explained. https://steelburgernews.co.za/263727/bejaarde-met-krat-doodgeslaanelderly-man-killed-crate/ He said the school was known as a centre and therefore the Department of Education stated that it was out of its jurisdiction to act upon the beating. “We have submitted a report to Thaba Chweu Local Municipality to follow up on the incident since the centre should be registered with them.” Barker was arrested the same evening (Thursday) that the boy and other learners admitted to the beatings. He was detained at the Lydenburg SAPS holding cells until Saturday, when he was released on R1 000 bail. Cader was handed over to the police on Saturday by his lawyer, but was also granted R1 000 bail. Barker and Cader appeared in Lydenburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Both were charged on six counts of assault with the intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The incident has since sparked outrage in town and on social media. All six children have been placed in places of safety. Both men are scheduled to appear again in court on May 6. CENTRE RESPONDS TO ALLEGED BEATING: The newspaper contacted the centre management of the school. It said in a statement that Lydenburg Islamic Centre management reacts with shock and condemnatory disgust to the recent criminal allegations levelled against the two educators. “It is the height of tragedy when in 2019, more than two decades after democracy, such appalling conduct and abuse towards children is still present in our schools. The management and trustees of the Lydenburg Islamic Centre condemn such conduct in the harshest manner possible as being a total violation of Islamic ethics and morality, which prescribes kindness and mercy as well as being incongruent with our Constitution. “The centre confirmed that both the accused have been immediately suspended without any form of compensation or remuneration and the Lydenburg Islamic Centre will honour and accept the verdicts handed down by the court in relation of the accused. “At no stage was management aware of the existence of such severe punishment meted out to the children and it is clear that such abuse occurred behind closed doors when other adults including management were not present. We will ensure that no stone is left unturned in getting to the bottom of this tragic incident and ensuring that it never occurs again. “As management we will continue in taking drastic steps against employees who are discovered engaging in such appalling abuse, which is a major sin in our religion.”