 According to the department of Safety and Security spokesman Moeti Mmusi, this morning at around 05;30, two passengers were killed when the light delivery vehicle (LDV) they were travelling in overturned on the R546 Road between Standerton and Charl Cilliers. “Three more people including the driver and the passenger sustained serious injuries and they are receiving treatment in the hospital.”  Two people perished yesterday afternoon,  on the  N4  near Sudwala Caves between Mbombela and Waterval Boven. This happened when the driver allegedly lost control of a truck that he was driving. The truck then went off the road and crashed into an embankment on the side of the road. Three people died after a head on collission between  two LDV’s  on the R38 Road between Barberton and Lows Creek yesterday afternoon. ” Two people including a driver and a six-month-old baby died on the scene while another driver died later in the hospital.”  Another three were tragically killed on Monday afternoon , following a collision between a midibus and a minibus on N4 toll road near Ngodwana towards Mbombela. It was reported that a sideswipe collision occurred between the two vehicles. One of the vehicles spinned on the road while another one lost control and overturned on the side of the road killing three people. Six people sustained serious injuries. Another six passengers escaped with minor injuries. On Sunday on the N11 Road between Middelburg and Loskop Dam, a  head on collision between an Avanza (sports utility vehicle) SUV and a sedan led to the death of three people. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Storm wreaks havoc on R40 The three victims were occupants in the Avanza and they died on the scene. Six people who sustained serious injuries were treated at Middelburg Hospital along with four more people who escaped with minor injuries. Mpumalanga Community Safety, Security and Liaison MEC Pat Ngomane expressed concerns over these crashes saying that government was doing all in its might to bring the number of accidents down but they continue to happen. Ngomane said a lack of respect for the rules of the road and general reckless behaviour by other motorists as some of the major causes of these tragedies. ” We are appealing to road users to be more cautious and obey the traffic rules to avoid unnecessary deadly crashes because most crashes are attributable to human behaviour. Road is everybody’s responsibility and we all need to do our bid in making the roads safer.” 