 MBOMBELA – Lowveld businesswomen negotiating the tricky twists and turns which come with owning and running a business were treated to a networking session at The Blue Gate Tea Garden on March 27. The event was hosted by Authentic Women and offered businesswomen the opportunity to exchange business ideas and impart a sense of “business unusual” in the attendees. Joshna Nagar and Faith Shava. ALSO READ: Healthcare to remote communities on track The evening’s host, Michelle Ann Vogt, said, “Authentic Women in Business is a platform for businesswomen to network and connect with other businesswomen and maybe collaborate. “I believe that the corporate world has forced us to be tough and most women lose their femininity, because it is constantly the battle of the toughest out there.” Dormay Burdett and Emmi Messina. She continued, “If you show even just a little sign of vulnerability, it is seen as a sign of weakness. My belief is that vulnerability is our greatest strength and this is what sets us apart from men.” The who’s who of local women in business attended the event, including Melody Tomlinson from Performance Booster, who gave a talk titled, “Nourishing your business” in which she provided valuable insights into growing and sustaining your business as a woman. ALSO READ: Charity event in aid of victims of cyclone Idai The evening’s theme was “It’s a business shower” and attendees were required to bring a small gift for another women to inspire and motivate them, according to Vogt. Adele Grobler and Charlene Joubert. Tomlinson drew a parallel between women raising their children and explored the teething problems first time mothers experienced, comparing this to the issues they come across in the running of their businesses. ALSO READ: Gang rivalry the alleged cause of murder She asked the assembled guests, “You do it for your child. Why can’t you do it for your business as well?” The evening included fun activities to break the ice and the women walked away with goody bags and new ways of looking at their businesses, as well as an extensive list of contacts to draw motivation from. Marelise Hennop and Karen Fourie from Honda. Authentic Women in Business will be hosting their next event on April 24 at Tindlovu Gardens, with Brenda Archdeacon as the guest speaker.