 Well, for one master bike-riding Lowvelder, history is alive and has been for 57 years. And if he forces down the kick-starter, it will be alive right this moment and for many more to come. I have written about Gary Edwards before, and his son Tyrone, but theirs is just one of those never-ending stories. There is always a new twist.  In this story, there are two and both are old – albeit one is excessively faster and more nimble than the other. Both can be considered well-respected icons and neither is ever leaving the Edwards heritage – certainly not on Gary’s watch. He participated in the 2019 DJ Rally, on very short notice when another entrant pulled out, and then continued to win the Lawson Trophy. He has won the 250cc class before. His dad won it in 1971. His brother did the DJ in 1975 just after turning 18.  His son Tyrone rode the DJ – in fact all the men in the Edwards family have participated in the DJ and on the same 1936 Velocette. It has been in the family for 57 years and is not going anywhere. Gary inherited the bike in 1980. It was also the year he competed in the DJ for the first time. ALSO READ: Family heirloom bike, the drive behind restoration “The race started in the centre of Durban – it was longer with less traffic than nowadays and I did not understand the time-thing back then, but thinking back, it was a unique experience and privilege.” After this first ride, he again competed in 2009. He won it in 2014, has rode all the way to the DJ, participated and rode back to Nelspruit more than once and can thus claim to know the ins-and-outs of this bike like no one else.  “Tyrone will certainly, once he has completed his studies, continue with the tradition of riding the DJ Edwards-style,” says Gary. “The Velocette is a robust bike. For the 2019 event, I just replaced all the fluids, a spark plug and off I went. I had no mechanical or other challenges during the event and next year we will do the same. They just don’t make bikes like this anymore. I will also do the Magnum Rally later this year. Then in 2020 when the DJ celebrates its 50th with a down run, I will again ride there all the way, do the DJ and ride her back to Nelspruit,” says Gary. With more than 50 years of riding experience, Gary has much to offer. “Riding a bike like this, or any bike for that matter, requires a mindful and focused approach and situational awareness.” Be that as it may, Gary certainly is a man of extremes. The Velocette is the slow side of Gary. A 1983 1100 Katana, with which he races in the CSRA Series, is the other, fast, extreme.  The age restriction for his track racing is 35. Thus it attracts the more mature, but not necessarily less competitive, riders. “The latter often lap faster than many riders on much faster and modern superbikes,” says Gary. “Being self-employed, the rest caution me to not always ride at 100%, but I still mostly finish in the top four of most races. “The acceleration and braking capacity of this Katana is phenomenal. Doing 250km/h is a breeze and quite a contrast to the Velocette’s 80km/h cruising speed. So yes, riding these bikes, each requires a different mindset.”  Gary has raced on his Z900 Kawa, but prefers the Katana. It is just so superior to many others, even some modern bikes. “I have started to work a little on my fitness levels so as to be able to keep lapping the young guns. Racing at Redstar with its 13 corners is very demanding and I am not about to stop racing just yet.” So – whether it is the old or older one – for Gary the ride always presents an adrenaline rush.  And yes, this story is never-ending because it is a family thing. It is about respect, love and enjoyment of technology (old and new). It is about dirty hands and bruises, tired muscles and the sharing of infinite stories and experiences. It is a story with soul, but there are also bikes in it. ALSO READ: Ready to ride? Join the Cycle Tribe relaunch