 LOW’S CREEK – It is so said that employment all over the world affects every facet of mankind. It is so important that it impacts the social, physical and mental well-being of man, irrespective of his socio-economic status, colour or creed. Entering the Louisville Road, which goes to Lily Mine, off the R38 between Barberton and Kaapmuiden, you are welcomed by this reality. This road’s (Louisville) construction is expected to be completed by December, but it looks like it will not meet the deadline. Read More: SSC CEO commits to Lily Mine Reports that it has been several damaged by disgruntled protesting residents over non-service delivery and nepotism in employment has caused construction delays. This road is one of the main source of employment among the local residents since the closure of Lily and Barbrook Mine on February 5, 2016.  According to Cllr Fikile Magagula of Ward 30 in the Nkomazi Local Municipality, a 10-kilometre stretch of the road, is budgeted to the tune of R162 million. She said they have managed to provide employment to only 180 locals, which include ex-employees of Lily and Barbrook. Driving up the road, there is a stop-and-go in action with the roadworks causing delays. Local small, medium and microenterprises are also benefiting in this construction project. As you drive along the road, one can see infrastructural development of RDP houses. These form part of David Mabuza’s commitment to build 1 000 RDP houses in the local community in an effort to create an opportunity for an employment.  Despite these developmental structures, you can still spot old mud houses. Kraals are standard features in most homes. Occasional herds of cattle or goats cross the dusty gravel road, which looks like a familiar sight in this part of the world. At a local tavern, called KaLanga in Sharlock, many locals, who are exemployees of Lily and Barbrook, said many political parties have chosen to ignore what has been apparent for some over three years: unemployment. The ex-miners first refused to grant interviews. But they later agreed on conditions that they were not photographed or their correct names published. “Look my brother, this area is different from where you entered. It is called Sharlock. “Down there when you enter it is called Louisville. So, all the developments and job opportunities happen down there. On this side, we here promised to be employed in the construction of the RDP houses and the road-paving project, but we are still not,” said one of the ex-miners. Another said had he not been a small-scale cow and goat farmer, he would not survive. I have a wife and four children. I’m forced to sell a cow after three months to support my family. They keep promising us that the mine will reopen. Now we trust no one,” he said. These ex-miners said they have decided to give no media houses any interviews because they have not been helpful. “You guys come here and conduct interviews and earn payment to feed your families while we are starving. And at the end we receive no help,” said another ex-miner. Asked how they survive; one said: We are blacks and have plans. Look, these houses we stay in are ours, we are not renting. There are also rivers. We go and fish there. We also till these lands.” Also Read: Creditors question Lily Mine loan The group of these ex-miners said their hopes of the mines being reopened have been dashed. Asked if they will partake in the national and provincial election on May 8, they all answered with a resounding no. “Why should we go and vote when all the political parties have neglected us? Everyone in the country knows our plight, but nobody has tried to intervene. The Department of Social Development promised us food parcels, but they only provided us with them twice, and then disappeared,” said another ex-miner. According to the Low’s Creek police station commander, WO Delisile Mamba, crime has increased in the area since the closure of the mines.