 Just after sunset this morning the Kodiak was loaded and final preparations where made for the week-long stay in Mozambique. Flying conditions are all right according to Phillip Schmied, who told Lowvelder “Blue sky, no wind and happy passengers so far,” just before the Kodiak took off for Beira.  Mercy Air CEO, Allan Luus explained that the plan was to first drop off the helicopter pilot, Joel Baertchi, and aircraft technician, Phillip Schmied in Beira.   At Mercy Air in White river, our journalist Tereasa Dias on board. The crew consist of pilot Paul Middleton, helicopter pilot Joel Baertchi and aircraft technician Phillip Schmied. They are flying on the Kodiak to Beira to drop off Joel and Phillip and then continue to Buzi to help Samariton Purse distribute food and medicine at a hospital. Keep an eye on www.lowvelder.co.za for daily updates. Posted by Laevelder / Lowvelder on Sunday, 14 April 2019 “From Beira our pilot Paul Middleton and Lowveld Media journalist Tereasa Dias will pick up food and medicine from the Samariton Purse Aid organisation and will then fly to a small town called Buzi to distribute it at a hospital,” said Luus. Middleton’s wife Cathy is already at the maternity hospital in Buzi, where she is working as a nurse/midwife. ALSO READ: Donations stream in at Hi-Q as result of the Lowvelder Lemon Challenge   Kodiak taking off at Mercy Air in White River with our journalist Tereasa Dias who will be joining Pilot Paul Middleton, helicopter pilot Joel Baertchi and aircraft technician Phillip Schmied in Mozambique this week. Flying from White River the Kodiak will first drop off Joel and Phillip in Beira and then head to a small rural town called Buzi. Keep an eye on www.lowvelder.co.za for daily updates. Posted by Laevelder / Lowvelder on Sunday, 14 April 2019  Around 10:45 am Tereasa was able to communicate with Lowvelder to indicate that they have landed at Beira, and are now proceeding through Customs.  ALSO READ: Lowvelders challenge each other to eat a lemon with a straight face to pay it forward Keep an eye on www.lowvelder.co.za for daily updates from Tereasa during this week in Mozambique.   