 MBOMBELA – Penny Street residents are in an uproar over the alleged increase in property tax by the City, which they claim is coupled with a lack of service delivery for homeowners. According to residents, they have seen an increase in traffic volumes during peak times, in the mornings and afternoons. They further claim that two-thirds of the increased flow originate from the nearby Orchard Shopping Centre, Valencia and the N4. They have also expressed their concern that more taxis are using the road to evade traffic officials policing errant motorists’ driving infractions on the highway. Acting City of Mbombela head of communications, Joseph Ngala in Penny Street. Hans Burger, a homeowner along the street, said the disadvantages for homeowners include this having a negative effect on the value of their properties and added that the increased property taxes being levied are not taken into account. ALSO READ: Offline systems at home affairs frustrate locals He said the personal safety of residents is compromised as a result of the increase in high-speed traffic volumes, in terms of residents driving in and out of their yards. An additional concern was that the closure of the service road to Penny Street increased traffic flow to the area. The service road has been closed while water infrastructure is being upgraded. He continued, “They could at least have sent out a notification to inform us as residents, and are taxing us more while decreasing the value of our properties.” The disgruntled Penny Street homeowner and a number of other residents said that they were not informed and questioned the City’s approval of this. Burger said, “Taxis travel from the lower end of the street to avoid traffic officials who are normally stationed at the bottom traffic light near the high school. Municipal workers hard at work. “We have recently been declared a high-density residential area, but this is a residential area. He also pointed out that the proposal to install traffic lights to counter reckless driving from motorists using the road creates an inconvenience for homeowners who are having difficulties getting their vehicles in and out of their driveways. ALSO READ: Taxing delays for trucks at Lebombo border due to SARS strike The acting head of communications for the Mbombela Local Municipality, Joseph Ngala, visited the street last Friday. He said he was unaware of increased traffic flow to the area. “We are aware of the closure of the service road in Penny Street. This is done in order to install two sets of traffic lights on that street to ensure the safety of our motorists in that area,” he said. The old water supply infrastructure is being upgraded. According to Ngala, the current situation poses a safety threat to motorists using the road. He assured residents that the project would create a safer environment. He added, “It should be noted that the residents were notified of the road closure through the ward councillor and that the envisaged completion of the project is mid-April.” Ngala did not comment on Lowvelder’s questions about the increased rates.