 The Easter weekend is peeping over the horizon and the Lowveld will be experiencing an influx of visitors who are ready to share in all the exciting things on offer. For those of us opting to stay home this weekend, there is a myriad of family activities to get into. We have compiled a list of things to do and places to go where the whole family will be entertained. A family picnic is the ideal outing and won’t hurt your pocket. ALSO READ: MEC urges public to help reduce crashes during Easter holidays The Riverside Mall in the Attitude Court will be having a fun egg decorating for the little ones on Saturday. The cost is R5 per egg and the merriment will start at 10:30 until 14:00. Since it is is after all, an Easter tradition, the Lowveld Botanical Garden will also be hosting an Easter Egg Hunt on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. The standard entry fee applies, and adults and children will be allowed in at a cost of R17. Children in the 3 to 5 year old age groups and those in the 6 to 9 year age groups will be having their own separate egg hunt. An Easter egg hunt at the Lowveld Botanical Gardens will go down a treat. For those in the mood for some lively entertainment, Joshua na die Reën is performing at African Dream, the Rest on Saturday to launch his third album, Someraande. Call Elsabé on 082 459 0343 to book early and avoid disappointment. ALSO READ: Keep your family safe on the road during Easter with these tips from TRAC If you’re in the mood for some equine entertainment, the Pondarosa Ranch will be having graded and recreational horse showjumping on Saturday and Sunday from 8:00 to 17:00. A visit to the Kruger National Park will most definitely be a hit. If none of the above tickles your taste buds, you can always visit the Flea Market at Halls every Sunday, or scoot over to our mall to catch up with the latest releases on the silver screen. Shop for bargains at the flee market. ALSO READ: Witnesses caught in the crossfire A visit to the Kruger National Park is always a good idea and pre-bookings can be made at the Kruger Lowveld Tourism Crossing Centre. Their office number is 013 755 1988 and their office will be open on Saturday from 8:00 to 12:00 to accommodate last-minute bookings. This list is a drop in the ocean and offers a glimpse into the numerous family-friendly activities you can get up to over this Easter weekend. Remember, the roads will be busier than usual, so be careful, courteous and considerate on the road. 