 LOW’S CREEK – Both Barbrook and Lily Mines are owned by Vantage Goldfields, through the Makonjwaan Imperial Mining Corporation (Mimco) She has five children. None of them were working at the time, and they are still unemployed. Only her husband was working, also at Barbrook, at the time when the collapse at Lily Mine that swallowed Pretty Nkambule, Yvonne Mnisi and Solomon Nyirenda happened. Read More:  Lily Mine sale only awaits ministerial approval “I can’t say I was living a comfortable life when I was working at Barbrook, but an affordable one. My husband and I were able to keep the fire burning, as we could afford a whole month’s food budget to feed us all in the house,” said Maphanga. She said since they were told to stop working, life has been a struggle for her and her family. My youngest was the only one qualifying for the social grant payment, as she was still under the age of 18. But on January, she turned 18 and she no longer qualifies,” continued Maphanga. Maphanga said her hopes of living an affordable life were raised on February 5 during a commemorative event held at Lily Mine. CEO of Siyakhula Sonke Empowerment Corporation (SSC Group), Fred Arendse told attendees that they were aiming to start with the process of engaging recruitment at both Barbrook and Lily on March 25 However, March 25 has come and gone. Nothing has been done, and the planned sale to SSC Group has been cancelled. Our hopes are shattering day by day. No one has come to address us on what is happening. It is frustrating to be left in hope that you never know when it will materialise,” added Maphanga. She said life for her, her husband and five children has been a struggle for her for the past three years. Also Read: New liquidation applications to be served on Barbrook and Lilly mines When Lowvelder visited the area on Tuesday, this journalist found Maphanga working at the ongoing road construction site in the area. She works as a flagman warning motorists about the ongoing road construction. The money I’m earning here is far less than what I used to earn at Barbrook. But I have no choice. I have to accept any job offer that comes on my way as long as I can feed my family. I’m the only one in the family of seven who works. Life is a struggle for us,” said Maphanga. Maphanga is one of the many local residents who are living in hope that an agreement will be reached so that they can return to work.