 Now if this car did not generate many smiles at Suzuki, its two category wins in the recent 2019 Auto Trader Car of the Year certainly did. Well done, Suzuki. You creamed it! This will definitely strengthen your brand presence in South Africa. The Ertiga is targeting, among others, the shuttle and mom’s taxi market. Of course, Toyota and the rest have, in my mind, already taken cognisance of the Ertiga’s intention.  I must admit that I am not a big fan of seven-seaters but then again – our kids are adults and there is no need in the family for a seven-seater either. Does the Ertiga have an ace up its sleeve? Perhaps yes! Its third-row seats offer enough space for adults too. Most other seven-seaters do not. I am, therefore curious to see whether and how the market will respond to this feature. It’s an MPV. Does it look the part? It does, yes. Because of its length (4 395mm) and being 130mm longer than the previous model, it does in my mind look a tad mismatched to the front and rear end design. If it was not for those strong design lines (convex lines) on the sides, it would have been utterly dull and boring. The front end displays a large executive look and feel without being overdesigned.  I love this. It is austere, dynamic and emotionally enticing, with the grille being the centre of attention. At the rear, an attractive design feature is presented by the light clusters and the shoulder line linking them. This is complemented by the emergency reflectors right down the bottom and on the edge of the bumpers. ALSO READ: Kuga ST is the new kid on the block It broadens the design and kind of, I feel, anchors and provides stability to the rear-end design. The roof line sports a small darkened section on the C-pillar, creating the impression that the roof is floating – but, yes you’re correct, it does not – but it does add a tiny-teeny bit of spice to the overall side impression. The shuttle and mom’s taxi market is not necessarily about all the bells and whistles. It is about space and practicality. Now, I drove the base model of the Ertiga, so there are more features available, should you require it. Of course the layout and design are still the same throughout the various derivatives – but you know that!
The Ertiga is 40mm wider and the roof 5mm higher.  This may not sound like a lot, but it does translate to more shoulder room for all passengers inclusive of the third-row seats. The seats are supportive, roomier (such a descriptive word) with the second row offering a 60/40 split, the third row a 50/50 split and fold down completely to create a large flat storage space. The load floor can adjust to two different heights and with metal plates in the folding seat backs now also offering much better durability. For the driver and the front passenger, the ergonomic and uncomplicated dashboard design and layout offer a comfortable and airy office. This is enhanced by large windows and excellent visibility, also perhaps as a result of the ride height of the Ertiga. The middle row can be locked in different configurations, and the third row’s seat backs can adjust by as much as 15 degrees.  The driver is treated to an instrument cluster with chrome bezels and a clear display – controls within easy reach. The base model does not come with a radio although the test vehicle was fitted with one. There is enough storage space including a 12V charging socket. I would prefer the sun visors to be slightly longer and wider and armrests for the front passengers. The Ertiga is fitted with driver and passenger air bags, ABS, EBD, and Suzuki’s Total Effective Control (TECT) which offers additional load paths to improve the energy distribution in case of an accident. This second generation Ertiga is fitted with a 1.5-litre fuel-injected VVTi technology engine producing 77kW and 138Nm. The latter being available over a wider rev range than before. So although you will have to work the gears when you hit the hills, and particularly when loaded, Suzuki engines can handle the higher revs and there is no need to fear. For day-to-day driving in town and even short distances, the 1.5 litre is responsive and more than willing offering during our drive about 13,5km/L in town and 15,6km/L on the open road.  The suspension offers a comfortable ride with good stability and control through corners. And with its light steering and a turning circle of just 5,2 metres, it is a breeze in town. I would suggest perhaps that you fit park distant sensors – just in case. Is it bright and cheesy? No, it is not! But it is spacious, practical, affordable and comes with a five-year/200 000km warranty and a service plan of four years/60 000km.  Add to this Suzuki’s “skrik vir niks” reputation and you are set to take the kids from primary to secondary school and beyond. ALSO READ: All the King’s cars