 The business landscape in South Africa is undergoing dramatic changes and the South African Council for Business Women (SACBW) are getting ready define women’s roles in business. They will be embarking on a roadshow which will delve into the impact of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the World Economic Forum’s The Future of Jobs 2018 Report. Women are making strides in business. The national leader of the SACBW, Elise Coetser said, “The theme, topics and format of the road show are purposefully designed to prepare our women for this uncertain tomorrow and to make sure that our delegates will walk away with valuable new business contacts, as well as new tools, knowledge and insights that they can practically apply in their businesses straight away.” ALSO READ: Road death toll at an all-time low this Easter She will be opening the programme with an in-depth look at the impact the Fourth Revolution has had on business, in addition to what the future of the world will look like. Her discussion will also include why it is necessary to join institutions like the SACBW to negotiate the ebb and flow of business in the future. The role of women in business is changing drastically. Next on the bill will be Nadia Carolissen who owns Aquila Guesthouse and is an accomplished businesswoman in her own right. She will be discussing the education, training and development of young women entering the workforce today, who will most likely become tomorrow’s business leaders. The importance of this is something which cannot be overlooked as mentoring has produced top CEOs globally. More women are at the helm of big corporations. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Storm heading for Mozambique to form into Cyclone Kenneth tonight More crucially, the millennials, or generation Y-ers and their contribution in the workforce, coupled with their technological know-how are a much-needed resource which keeps business competitive. Nikita Blaauw, herself a millennial, will be tackling the question of what millennials need from prospective employers to excel. Erikka Motang, serial entrepreneur and board member of both SACBW and the South African United Employers Organisation (SAUEO, will host an interactive workshop that will help women uncover their unique feminine traits, and explain how it can help them succeed in business. The boardroom is no longer the exclusive domain of men. ALSO READ: Vrou kom deur diep water en wil ander help The programme will conclude with Coetser’s talk on ‘What does a successful business woman look like.” She said, “Essentially we want women to depart from this road show, embracing their feminine power and understanding the leading role they must play in the business evolution. We also want to wake them up to how we as women can empower one another to rise into unimaginable potential, whilst empowering others.” The different editions of the road show are set to take place as follows: To book your seat to any of the editions of the SACBW Empowerment Road Show, simply go to www.sacbw.org. For more information, or to get involved as a sponsor, you may contact national@sacbw.org.