 I just drove the new revised Kuga – the ST-Line in particular – and let me say that it most definitely has the credentials to bury the still wandering, Kuga ghost. It is highly unlikely that a large corporation will put its foot in it, again. One can therefore, to my mind anyway, bury the hatchet and distrust and embrace that which this Kuga has to offer. ALSO READ: Ford and Volkswagen forms alliance Ford has dropped the Titanium spec Kuga in favour of the new ST-line derivative. It is fitted with a 2,0-litre Ecoboost engine which presents a sporting character to its SUV credentials.  Of course if you are otherwise (frugally) inclined, the range does offer punchy 88kW 1,5-litre TDCi derivatives in the Ambient and Trend editions. These may well be more budget-friendly but then again, my fuel index over a weekend drive in the ST-Line indexed at 7,8-litre/100km. The Kuga is built on Ford’s Global C-Platform, inclusive of Haldex hydraulics and torque vectoring that was developed for the Focus RS. I am not going to compare it element by element with the previous model because to do that, is just a waste of time. Let ‘sjust work with what is now!  I drove the ST-Line and sitting on 19-inch wheels elevates the Kuga’s visibility and sporty status. The body kit energises and lifts its spirit, it entices the attention – it invites one to allow your curiosity to explore and acknowledge. The shoulder line is strong and well supported by the dynamic skirting and purposeful wheel arches. The front end with its large grill and wide air dam, widens the profile and adds confidence and playfulness. At the rear, the narrow grill sided by a twin exhaust – despite not offering much of an inspiring sound box – does present a tease. The taper-off roof line design which is disrupted by a slightly higher rear window line, strengthens and broadens the rear end while also rendering it strong and masculine.  If we cut to the chase, all the above simply means I love the exterior and dynamic design. The interior is vibrant as a result of the gun metal inserts and colouring. It sports a prominent touch screen sitting high up on the fascia and a slightly higher than standard position for the gear lever. The instrument cluster is large and in your face with clear detail and controls at your finger tips. The dashboard is quite wide – to the point of kind of encroaching on your knee space but fortunately the steering can be adjusted for both height and reach and the seat offers height adjustments too.  And while on this point – seating is high and visibility is excellent. Legroom at the rear is good although not as much as with some of the Kuga’s competitors. It’s comfy all through the cabin though. The panoramic sunroof – I am not a sunroof fan though – offers those so inclined, to “expand” the space inside the car. An open roof may well serve to meditate the little ones to sleep on long trips. The 2,0-litre TDCi engine produces 132kW and 400Nm. This, in combination with Ford’s intelligent all-wheel drive system and very smooth six-speed powershift autobox, presents one with a car that offers an exciting driving experience. It is effortless – it is quiet – it is quick (enough for most) – it is flat, precise and confident when you force it through tight corners and despite a firm sport-like suspension, it is surprisingly comfortable especially when the road surface becomes nothing but a constipated challenge. The suspension now benefits from thicker anti-roll bars, a 10mm lower ride height, different suspension bushes and thus offering a sharper and more responsive suspension and driving experience. Loved it – performance is not brutal and utterly powerful – its refined but still above average for a diesel. The test vehicle, supplied by Nelspruit Ford, was also kitted with adaptive cruise control, active park assist, blind spot warning and lane keeping assistance.  Adaptive cruise control not only controls your speed, it also adapts it the moment it recognise or pick up a vehicle in front of you. Once the latter moved out of the way or increased speed again, it will increase your speed to the previously set index. Of course if you don’t want the top model, the Kuga is also available with a frugal 1,5-liter TDCi delivering 88kW and 270Nm – offers front-wheel drive and a six-speed manual transmission. There’s also a 1,5-litre Ecoboost FWD petrol model producing 110kW and 240Nm and if you really want much more vroom-vroom, there is a 2,0-litre Ecoboost offering 177kW and 340Nm. Although I did not drive any of these, I reckon the 1,5s will prove the most popular and then perhaps the 2,0-litre TDCi ST-Line will follow suit. It really offers the best of both worlds as well as an excellent fuel index to boot. To my mind this Kuga has just buried the ghost but of course, many would not agree with this until the proverbial fat lady sang. If you consider yourself an open-minded individual, go drive it – you will be impressed. Pricing starts at R384 900. ALSO READ: Classic Ford styling an upmarket upgrade