 Delegates will once again come as far afield as Nigeria, Ghana, France, Ethiopia, Namibia, Kenya, Russia and Switzerland to attend the much anticipated second Brand Summit SA. A new addition to the 2019 program, will be a brand-new discussion panel consisting of “Leaders of The Future”.  With this panel dynamic speakers under the age of 35 will share their views about and expectations of South Africa, the country brand, in the context of fast-evolving domestic, regional, continental and global dynamics. Particularly interesting will be a discussion about what they understand by “Fourth Industrial Revolution” and how they think South Africa should best prepare for it.   Much of the content of the summit’s program revolves around issues of country brand/destination reputation management, which include Public Relations & Communication Management, Stakeholder Engagement, Reputation Management, Destination Marketing Strategies best practice, etc. Professionals in all these areas of activity have a lot to contribute and to learn from the planned discussions, said Solly Moeng, Summit Convenor.  In addition to an expected bigger African and global delegation, the 2019 keynote address will be delivered by the much-respected Kenyan Professor Patrick Loch Otieno Lumumba, Associate Professor of Public Law & Founding Dean at the Kabarak University School of Law, Kenya. Sisa Ntshona, CEO of SA Tourism, will also speak at the 2019 Summit. The 2019 Brand Summit South Africa partners with the Public Relations Institute of Southern Africa (PRISA) and the City of Johannesburg, will will be the host city for three years until 2021. The other professional partner at a global level are the The Davos which is a Switzerland based World Communication Forum and City National Place Ltd. The partnership with PRISA and City Nation Place Ltd is a natural one for this event, said  Moeng. City Nation Place Ltd creates forums around the world for sharing expertise to promote best practice in place branding and place marketing strategy.  Bringing together national government teams, city marketing boards, mayoral teams, destination marketing organisations, and investment promotion boards. City Nation Place is delighted to be partnering with the South Africa Brand Summit.  It’s our mission to help places around the world develop a more cohesive and collaborative approach to place brand strategy and the South Africa Brand Summit contributes to this – bringing together government and private sector to share ideas for the positive development of South Africa, the country brand, on the world stage, said Clare Dewhirst on behalf of her organisation. City Nation Place forums have become the go-to events to learn how to develop and implement a collaborative vision of the brand strengths and ambitions of a country, city, region or place, to drive economic development. The annual City Nation Place Awards also benchmark and celebrate innovative and effective place brand strategy and place marketing campaigns. ALSO READ: Lowveld Media a winning team in Caxton