 According to a press release issued by the Institute of Race Relations (IRR), the South African public needs to be clear about one thing: Julius Malema propagates and encourages hate. They say, “It is directed against minorities. It is dangerous. And it must be condemned. The great risk we run is sliding into a debate about the kind of hate he advocates and its technical or legal character. It is hate and that is what should be of concern.” The IRR’s understanding of hate speech is that, to qualify, an idea must threaten imminent harm. In our estimation, Malema’s remarks did not, and thus do not qualify. But that they were hateful, we are in no doubt. And that is the point. The EFF’s firebrand leader, Julius Malema. ALSO SEE : GALLERY: Funeral for Jackson Mthembu’s daughter at KaNyamazane Stadium Their statement continues: “By no more than coincidence, we are thus in agreement with the SAHRC’s conclusion. But so categorically wrong-headed was the SAHRC’s logic, in law and principle, it almost makes that point moot. Julius Malema is a controversial figure on the South African political landscape. The IRR’s statement continued to say that, while there is a fight being waged in certain legal quarters to establish a clear set of overarching principles with regard to free speech, after years of confusion and contradiction, the South African public has no clear concept of what free speech means, in principle, in law or in politics. ALSO READ : Attempted CIT heist foiled They continued to say, “Competing judgements over time, from institutions like the SAHRC, the Equality Court and the courts themselves, augmented by a political and majoritarian impulse to punish nothing more than offence, to ban and to prosecute ideas and prejudices, have produced a moral morass on the subject. Certainly, the idea, in its best sense, is fighting for its life today. It has been systematically eroded. The SAHRC’s reasoning only does more harm to it.” EFF followers at a rally. “Regardless, Malema’s remarks are hateful, and they are dangerous, and that critical point is all that needs to be said on the matter. To lose sight of that, to fail to properly act against it, or to surrender moral judgment to a legal technicality would be to absolve Julius Malema and the threat his hate represents. It must be countered.” ALSO READ  : Madiba statue gets a facelift “The freedom to speak that underpins every free society is the fundamental bulwark against dangerous ideas. But it requires public, not merely legal, attention. Ideas can be dangerous, but banning ideas always is. It is for this reason that countering the real threat that nurturing hate in our society poses is a responsibility that falls primarily on the South African public,” the statement concluded. 