 The Vodacom Bulls have teamed up with South African National Parks (SANParks) and Wild Card to create awareness about the extraordinary effort that SANParks rangers put in on a daily basis as they protect our beautiful national parks around South Africa with these unsung heroes being honoured at our next home Vodacom Super Rugby match against the Reds on Saturday,  April 13. Also read: KNP rangers help find remains of suspected poacher killed by elephant The men from Pretoria will play in their green away strip, a design by our apparel sponsor PUMA that pays tribute to SANParks, despite their home ground advantage to further drive home their commitment to what SANParks does as they continue to serve as guardians of our heritage, often risking their lives to protect endangered species such as the rhino. SANParks CEO Fundisile Mketeni says that support from one of the biggest sports teams in South Africa will go a long way in creating awareness for conservation and our men and women in green. “One of the biggest challenges to conservation in the 21st Century is wildlife crime and without the help of all people we will not halt the attack on our natural heritage. We are thankful to the Vodacom Bulls for joining the conservation effort to help conserve our natural heritage for future generations.”  Several SANParks rangers, or as we at Loftus Versfeld like to call them: superheroes, will be in attendance and will watch the action from the VIP couch on the field while walking a lap of honour afterwards. Vodacom Bulls captain, Handre Pollard, stated that this cause is close to the players hearts and that they will rise to the occasion for such a special occasion. There is nothing better for South Africans to experience than to spend time at one of our many national parks and our enjoyment of this would not be possible without the excellent work that SANParks does.” “We love playing in front of our supporters in the hallowed Vodacom Bulls jersey and we will have the privilege of facing the Reds with some of SANParks rangers in attendance which serves as extra motivation to play our best game.” SANParks would not be able to do what they do without the generosity of the public with donations being able to be made on their website, www.sanparks.org, or by sending an SMS to 40401 at a cost of R20.