 MBOMBELA – L Botha might not remember much about the car accident he was involved in on December 31, but various compassionate Samaritans assisted him in his time of need. One of them was Arlene Brown, who held an umbrella over the eight-year-old to keep him dry while he was trapped in the car following the horrific crash. The accident happened on the N4 near Schagen and claimed the lives of L’s mother, Magda de Beer, and her boyfriend, Wayne Jansen van Rensburg. Danny and L Botha. Brown, who owns a house in Mbombela with her husband, was one of the first witnesses on the scene. She said she still gets nightmares of the terrible accident and that she will never forget L’s desperate and dreadful screams. She explained that they were driving just behind the family’s Toyota Tazz. The crash occurred when the tyre of a BMW X5 allegedly burst, causing it to swerve into the oncoming lane and hit the Tazz head-on. ALSO READ: Boy trapped in car with mother’s body Brown and her husband stopped their car while a few of the cars behind them also tried to help. According to her De Beer died on impact, but Jansen van Rensburg still had a weak pulse for about two minutes. “I immediately tried to calm the boy down and then started going to other cars to ask them for an umbrella to hold over him. I didn’t sleep for the remainder of that week.” While she was holding the umbrella, a married couple stopped to try and assist. “They used nappies to try and stop the blood that was coming out of the boy’s knee,” Brown explained.  She said it felt like hours passed by before emergency services arrived on the scene. “I later realised it was because we were so far out of town and that it only felt long because of what was happening around us,” Brown said. L’s right ankle was fractured, steel pins had to be implanted in both of his wrists as well as his left leg, his collar bone was broken and he now has to wear a sling to assist with its healing. Brown is suffering from a terrible cold as a result of the pouring rain. For her, however, there was a light at the end of this very dark tunnel. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Two people dead in head-on collision on the N4 “We cried and cried out of sheer joy when we learned that the boy still has a father,” Brown said. L and his father returned to their hometown, Delmas, last week where he is expected to make a full recovery. And even though they will probably never meet again, the incident will be etched in Brown’s mind forever. “If the accident had happened two seconds later it could have been us. You never know what waits around the next corner.”