 KAMHLUSHWA – Confetti rained down on Natasha Agostinho of Hoërskool Bergvlam and she was enveloped in hugs after she was named the top matric in the province on Friday morning. Her dedication and hard work earned her the top spot among the 44 612 learners who wrote the national senior certificate exams in the province. The executive committee chairman of the Mbombela school not only received a full bursary for her tertiary studies and a host of other prizes, like her fellow top 10 pupils, but also a brand-new car. READ: Bergvlam se leerders tel onder bestes in provinsie The announcement of Mpumalanga’s matric results took place at KaMhlushwa Primary in Nkomazi and was attended by political leaders, headmasters, teachers, learners and parents from across the province. The Mpumalanga MEC for education, Sibusiso Malaza, announced that the province had obtained an overall pass rate of 79 per cent, an improvement of 4,2 per cent over last year. It is also just above the national pass rate of 78,2 per cent. The Ehlanzeni district achieved a pass rate of 82,3 per cent, making it the best in the province and sixth in the country. READ: Mpumalanga second highest improvement for matric results Hoërskool Nelspruit was named the best school in the province, with a 100 per cent pass rate and the most bachelor passes. A total of 226 out of 267 candidates received bachelor passes and pupils managed to get a total of 328 distinctions. Hoërskool Nelspruit principal, Johan Hattingh received the school’s award as best in the province and most bachelor’s passes. Wehan Viljoen was in the top 10 and named the top performer in geography, and Miga van der Nest, the best performer in English first additional language. Both had seven distinctions. The top learners in the school were Rudolf Henning and Carla Venter, who each received eight distinctions. Wehan Viljoen of Hoërskool Nelspruit was among the top ten learners in the province and top performer in geography. Agostinho’s fellow Vlammies, Johann Naduvileparambil and Neo Mkhabela, were also in the top 10. MEC Sibusiso Malaza and Cllr Thulisile Khoza with Neo Mkhabela of Hoërskool Bergvlam. The MEC mentioned that more girls are passing matric and attributed it to the department’s programmes to encourage girls to stay in school and avoid teenage pregnancy. Girls comprised 54,9 per cent of the learners who passed. More than 50 per cent of matrics also chose to write maths instead of maths literacy and 101 schools offered maths and science as mandatory subjects. More learners passed these subjects than last year, with an improvement of 6,4 and 8,6, respectively. There has also been an improvement in pass rates and bachelor passes among “no fee” schools. Minister Angie Motshekga noted in her speech that 53 per cent of bachelor’s passes came from these schools. Malaza touched on this by mentioning that five boarding schools established in farm areas have performed well. Shongwe Boarding School in Schoemansdal, near Malalane, obtained a pass rate of 95,5 per cent. These learners were among those who camped out at school during holidays and took extra classes over weekends to ensure they were adequately prepared for the exams. Teachers, learners and communities were lauded for their exceptional dedication and effort in ensuring excellence despite the difficult circumstances they faced. READ: Mbombela IEB schools achieve top matric pass rates Malaza stated that it was encouraging to see that 62 out of the province’s 68 circuits have a pass rate of above 70 per cent. He mentioned that they will launch programmes to assist the underperforming schools and get communities to support them to be successful. However, he stated that top performing schools would also receive special assistance and support to reward them for their achievements. The MEC said the department wants to encourage schools to work harder and do not want to reward schools that are not working hard to improve. “Any performance below 70 per cent will not be appreciated, as it represents mediocrity and ineffectiveness,” he stated. A lot of work also needs to be done to ensure that all learners who start grade one finish matric. According to the DA, a total of 96 984 learners started grade one in 2007 and in 2016, 91 805 started grade 10. Yet, only 44 612 full-time learners wrote the exams in 2018, of whom 35 225 passed. Jane Sithole, the DA’s provincial leader, said that as much as the learners who did well had to be congratulated, the large number of dropouts were a huge problem. “There is a lost generation of thousands. It is too high and we don’t know where they are. Youths are in the streets and they are unemployable and we don’t have a strategy. To get the province right, we need to get these children through school. We need a retention strategy to make sure the future of the province is actually bright.” The MEC urged headmasters to give learners who failed the exams a chance to redo the year and teachers and communities to support them to be successful in 2019. Learners can also opt to retake the exams they’ve failed during the multiple examination opportunities, which will take place in May and June.