 The new C-Class is being built in Mercedes-Benz’s East London plant, and its launch comes barely two months after Mercedes-Benz recently announced the investment of R10 billion to significantly expand the C-Class production plant in East London and to equip it for the future. The decision to have the new generation of C-Class (W206) produced in East London reaffirms the plant and Mercedes-Benz’s commitment to South Africa.  “This investment represents Mercedes-Benz’s confidence in South Africa and its labour force for our popular C-Class range,” said Johannes Fritz, co-CEO of Mercedes-Benz South Africa and executive director of Mercedes-Benz Cars. Now in its fifth year of production, the C-Class is the most successful model series from Mercedes-Benz, and the new edition boasts a wealth of enhancements.  In terms of looks, the car boasts a redesigned front end, with new-look headlamps and tail lamps. The electronics are completely new, with safety and driver assistance systems now at the level of the flagship S-Class series. There are also new petrol and diesel engines. “South Africans just love the C-Class.  This new model is our sportiest and most dynamic C-Class to date, and with its looks, safety and performance, we’re confident it’s going to appeal to a broader audience than ever before,” said Selvin Govender, marketing director of Mercedes-Benz Cars South Africa. The market launch of the C-Class is being accompanied by an international campaign, “Never stop improving”, featuring local sprint sensation Akani Simbine and tennis legend Roger Federer – whose mother was born on the East Rand.  Highlighting the campaign’s theme of “Never stop improving”, the local launch event was hosted at Johannesburg’s historic Rotunda, which was specially refurbished by Mercedes-Benz for the event. Mercedes-Benz also created a new multifunctional venue under the Rissik Street bridge, turning what used to be an empty space into an area that is now suitable for training presentations and gatherings.