 WHITE RIVER – The two dogs that killed a little girl in town on Tuesday evening will never pose a threat to anybody again. They were euthanised on Wednesday. According to White River SAPS spokesman Sgt Cynthia Mbokodo, the owner of the dogs is a teacher at the same preschool the five-year-old girl attended. She had an arrangement with the girl’s parents to bring her home from school. The name of the victim has not been released by the SAPS. It is known, however, that the parents and owners of the dogs live in the same street, Sederberg Street, a few houses from each other. According to acquaintances, they are good friends. Mbokodo said the woman apparently stopped outside her gate and they alighted from the car. As she opened the gate, the dogs unexpectedly attacked the girl. According to eyewitnesses, the woman tried to grab the girl from the dogs, but in vain. The dogs allegedly acted very aggressively and even seemed to attack each other during the incident. Emergency services and the SAPS were called immediately, but the girl was certified dead on the scene. While waiting for the SAPS forensic unit to arrive, the owners of the dogs and the girl’s parents spent time together privately, consoling each other. Both families requested that their privacy and grief be respected. Several requests to friends and acquaintances to shed light on the circumstances surrounding the event were turned down. Everybody, however, concurred that the teacher had cared immensely for the girl and would have given anything to have prevented the tragedy. Residents of the area who gathered in the street on Tuesday and sought to take justice into their own hands regarding the dogs, were prevented by SAPS officers and the SPCA was summoned. Inspector Michelle van Wyk rushed to the scene, where the owners requested she remove the dogs to prevent a recurrence of such a situation. “The owners signed the dogs over to the SPCA and asked for them to be euthanised,” she confirmed. “The incident was extremely traumatic to the owners too.” She also addressed the crowd and assured them that the dogs would be removed permanently. “We commend the SAPS for acting correctly and informing us immediately,” she said. “Apart from the fact that somebody else could be harmed by them, and as tragic as the circumstances may have been, those dogs needed to be handled correctly too.” A family member of the owners later helped her to load the dogs and take them to the SPCA holding kennels. They were euthanised the next day. Van Wyk confirmed that brain tissue would be sent away to the Onderstepoort Veterinary Institute to be tested for possible rabies infection, as per standard procedure. A case of culpable homicide was opened and an investigation is under way. The dogs were considered to be of the pit bull type by residents as well as the SAPS members on the scene. According to Van Wyk, it could not be established whether they were pure bred, but both were of that descent. Both were males, one sterilised, one not. Allegations of previous attacks by the same dogs, as mentioned in preliminary comments on Lowvelder’s web version of the story, could not be established. No complaints were received by the local SPCA. According to Van Wyk, residents who feel threatened by dogs in a neighbourhood should contact the SPCA to launch an investigation. “We do not give attention to social media and only react to direct complaints.” Both Van Wyk and Mbokodo afterwards urged owners of dogs known as “power breeds” to take extra care. “They need continuous stimulation and exercise and should join socialisation and training classes from a very young age. Owners should also concentrate on getting to know the breed and its characteristics.” This was echoed by several readers who commented on the web version of the story. A dog lover wrote, “Condolences to all involved. This is too horrible to think about, a total tragedy. I am so sad for all involved,” and urged dog owners to train them in order to exercise control over them. “Lowveld Dog Training offers fun and rewarding training,” she advised. But among many comments concentrating on the dogs, being pit bulls or not, and the seemingly aggressive behaviour of the breed, a few voices from a community plunged into grief reminded others that “the issue at hand now should be the intense trauma and pain both families are going through.”