 MBOMBELA –  Lowvelder reported when he was first apprehended in August after it was alleged he had been kidnapped. He was wounded and taken into custody by military police in Palma, Mozambique. During the arrest, he was chased by undercover military men down the road. He ran to the Marula Hotel for safety. Four men with balaclavas drove through the security gate of the hotel and confronted Andre. Witnesses reported that he was shot at several times and hit in the arm. They put him in the back of a brown Toyota Cruiser and disappeared. Andre’s wife, Francis, has diligently defended her husband’s innocence and claimed that the police only arrived after three months to take items from their home as evidence. She said this had all transpired as other businessmen in the area wanted to get rid of her husband to get to his businesses. “These are all lies against my husband so they can take over his businesses.” Andre owns the Marina in Palma. He has resided in Mozambique for the past 25 years. He was arrested with two Tanzanians: Chafim Mussa and Adamu Nhaungwa Yanhgue. They are facing various charges including crimes against the state, murder and inciting civil disobedience. Court documents state that the men are linked to a number of attacks, including one in 2017 when a police station was attacked. Three officers were killed and guns and ammunition were stolen. Mozambique has witnessed brutal attacks in the area by armed militants that police have linked to an extremist Islamic group in the northern part of the country. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) minister, Lindiwe Sisulu, issued a press statement that she had received a report from the South African high commissioner to Mozambique, Mandisi Mphalwa, regarding charges faced by Andre of him supporting and aiding an extreme jihadist group that is destabilising the northern part of Mozambique. These jihadists’ activities are also linked to the deaths of over 100 citizens in that area. She said she viewed the charges in a very serious light and has requested South African law-enforcement agencies to investigate with the aim of ensuring that no South African becomes involved in activities that destabilises other countries. “The people of South Africa and Mozambique share a deep political history and strong economic relations. It is not acceptable that a South African citizen is in court for the alleged involvement in extreme jihadist activities that resulted in loss of life. South Africans should spread love and peace across the SADC area, continent and the world,” Sisulu said. Dirco spokesman, Ndivhuwo Mabaya confirmed that Andre was arrested three times by the authorities for aiding rebel groups in the area.
“He will appear in court this month.” Mabaya added that the department will investigate the situation, as he is innocent until proven guilty and would be assisting the family during the process. In October it was reported that there were possible South African links to a kidnapping of a Tanzanian billionaire, Mohammed Dewji, who was released unharmed. It was confirmed that those who seized Dewji were “Caucasian” South African males involved in the incident. The report stated that armed operations on the African continent tended to usually imply “guns for hire”