 MBOMBELA – Motorists were met with barricaded roads and flashing police lights in large parts of the Lowveld on Monday morning. In some parts the blocking of the roads had an alarming affect on traffic, with it being congested for kilometres, while in other parts residents were prevented from leaving or entering certain areas, forcing them to miss a day of work or school.  Col Matsholi Bhembe, provincial police spokesman, said the protests started on Sunday evening and that tyres were burned on roads in Pienaar, KaBokweni, KaNyamazane, Rocky Drift and Matsulu. He could not confirm the exact location of all the road blocks.  Lowvelder, however, received complaints of popular routes being blocked like the R40 between Rocky Drift and White River near the Engen garage, where a truck and burning tyres were used to block the road early on Monday morning. Once the fires were extinguished, debris left on the road caused serious delays in peak-hour traffic between White River and Mbombela.  Another disrupted route was at exit six from KaNyamazane, on the road that leads to Pienaar. A tree was dragged onto the tar and rocks were packed across it. ALSO READ: WATCH: Policeman injured as University protest turns violent At the last-mentioned, Lowvelder was on the scene. Tension was high as the police tried to reason with protesters to open the road.  Members of Pienaar Police Station were also initially barred from getting through, but managed to get to the station eventually. Traffic was backed up at both ends of the barricade. Children in school uniforms were seen exiting buses and taxis that also struggled to get through. “We are not sure what the cause of the protests is, but I am sure that it was a coordinated affair, because all of the incidents were happening at the same time,” Bhembe said.  Edwin Mabuza, deputy chairman of Ward 21 in KaNyamazane, said it was individuals who were unhappy with the current status quo in both local and national government. According to Capt Jabu Ndobane, spokesman for the Pienaar clusters, the protesters were complaining of poor service delivery, road maintenance and tenders that have allegedly been allocated illegally or fraudulently to individuals.  A KaNyamazane resident said he was also unsure of the reason behind the protests, but suspected that it had something to do with the transport industry and “the horrible state of the roads with potholes everywhere”. “The situation is calm now and the police are monitoring the protesters. We do not expect them to continue and, as far as we know, all roads are open,” Ndobane said at the time of going to press.  He also confirmed that no shots were fired at any of the locations. Ndobane confirmed that a taxi driver had been killed in a fight earlier in January, but that the incident was not related to the Monday protests. Bhembe urged people to stop and use the correct channels to voice their grievances.  “There are a lot of avenues that they can take. There is a petition office at the government legislature where they can submit complaints in writing, there are councillors everywhere who can help to make a difference and they can even go to the media to voice their opinions,” Bhembe said. No arrests had been made. ALSO READ: Angry protesters block main gate at Rob Ferreira Hospital