 Spinning yarn has revived around the globe like never before. This is no truer than for community-based project, Ukuthunga Handmade. Their knots of love are weaving into the fabric of people’s lives in South Africa and abroad. Born of the humble offer to teach people to crochet, Ukuthunga Handmade exudes virtue. Plant baskets, storage solutions, rugs and shopping bags to doorstops are some of the beautiful artisanal products created by these women. Baby range items include blankets, African animals and teddies. “The organisation is evolving in a way we never imagined,” said co-founder, Tana van Schalkwyk. “Each day brings new opportunity and hope as we continue to grow. From thread to thread, the original group of five has bloomed over the past two years to around 100 women from the Msholozi, Backdoor, Sabie and Mphakeni communities.” Their recent recognition at the Mpumalanga Arts & Culture Awards enabled upfront purchase of three months’ stock. Spontaneous praise and thanksgiving through song and dance, impregnates the air in the small and simple, yet heartwarming shelter where these women live out their newly found gift. In addition to engendering an entrepreneurial spirit, this self-sufficient initiative offers a sense of purpose and hope – and is flexible in how it operates. It affords the opportunity to come and go as you please, based on whether employment is secured elsewhere, be it permanent, seasonal or contract. In-progress pieces are often taken home for completion. The model for how earnings are split is perhaps one of the best out there: driving initiative and creativity while balancing equitable distribution in that everyone feels a part. Making a standard piece sees the profit split evenly between the team of Ukuthunga craftswomen. The project offers a rigorous training programme and quality control process to ensure only the best quality (and exquisitely) handcrafted pieces are sold. Purchasing something from Ukuthunga is acquiring a one-of-a-kind artwork. Former teacher, Leah Mavimbela, has returned to her calling as chief of crochet training. She also leads innovation – some of her pioneering work includes the giraffe, warthog, hippo, lion, and llama soft toys. “I feel that I belong. We are a community with dignity and hope that puts food on the table. The work we do has far surpassed expectation. Our vision is to generate a R1 000 supplement income for each person. The golden number to achieve financial impetus would be securing a single order of 1 000 pieces,” said Mavimbela. Products can be bought online from their Facebook page and in local boutiques and retailers. Enquiries: Annelle Whyte on 071-163-8719 or annelle555@gmail.com.