 The first 911 convertible rolled off the production line available as the 911 Carrera S Cabriolet and 911 Carrera 4S Cabriolet, the latest soft-top versions of the brand’s iconic sports car include all the innovative features of the Coupe, along with convertible-specific elements, such as new hydraulics responsible for opening and closing the roof quicker than ever before.  The open-top version of the iconic sports car echoes the modern lines of the Coupe, though it remains unmistakably a Porsche 911 in Cabriolet form. The fully automatic soft top has an integrated glass rear window. Its structure contains magnesium surface elements known as bows, which reliably prevent ballooning of the roof at high speeds. The roof can be opened or closed at speeds up to 50km/h. New hydraulics reduce the opening time to around 12 seconds, while an electrically extendable wind deflector ensures that necks are shielded from wind impact.  The new 911 Carrera S Cabriolet with rear-wheel drive and 911 Carrera 4S Cabriolet with all-wheel drive both rely on a six-cylinder boxer engine, which produces 331kW and 530Nm. ALSO READ: Porsche se 718 Boxster en Cayman kry GTS-woema Thanks to an improved injection process, drive efficiency has been increased whilst emissions were reduced. Other optimisation measures include a new layout for the turbochargers and charge air cooling system. The power is delivered by a newly developed eight-speed dual-clutch transmission. The 911 Carrera S Cabriolet accelerates from zero to 100km/h in 3,9 seconds (with optional Sport Chrono Package: 3,7 seconds) and can reach speeds up to 306km/h. ALSO READ: Porsche driver arrested for doing 256km/h near Alkmaar The 911 Carrera 4S Cabriolet attains a top speed of 304km/h and achieves 0-100km/h in 3,8 seconds (with optional Sport Chrono Package: 3,6 seconds). For the first time, the Porsche Active Suspension Management (PASM) sport chassis is available for the 911 Cabriolet.  It features harder and shorter springs, more rigid front and rear anti-roll-bars as well as a 10mm lower chassis. These adjustments give the 911 convertible a more neutral feel on the road, with better weight distribution. The new 911 Cabriolet looks wider, more self-assured and altogether more muscular than its predecessor. Wider wings arch over the large 20″ wheels at the front and 21″ wheels at the rear. The rear-wheel-drive models now match the bodywork width of the existing all-wheel models. The rear axle has grown by 44mm, while the 45mm wider front end revives a traditional feature from earlier 911 generations. As it does in the original 911, the new dashboard covers the entire width between two horizontal wing levels. Alongside the centrally positioned rev counter, two thin, frameless freeform displays deliver information to the driver. Now 10,9″ in size, the centre screen of the Porsche Communication Management (PCM) can be operated quickly without causing distraction. As a world first, Porsche has developed the Wet Mode, which is included as standard. This function detects water on the road, preconditions the control systems accordingly and warns the driver, who can then opt to set up the car with a focus on safety, by simply pushing a button or using the mode switch on the steering wheel (Sport Chrono Package). The camera-based warning and brake assist system, also fitted as standard, detects the risk of collision with vehicles, pedestrians, or cyclists, and initiates a warning or emergency braking procedure if necessary. ALSO READ: Porsche’s heritage revived A Park Assistant system, including reversing camera, completes the standard configuration of the convertible. Options for the 911 include Night Vision Assist, with thermalimaging camera, as well as adaptive cruise control with automatic distance control, stop-and-go function and reversible occupant protection.