 By way of a complex process which took various factors, such as financial debt, failed New Year’s resolutions and low motivational levels into account, Dr Cliff Arnall, a psychologist from the UK, was able to pinpoint the third Monday in January as the “bluest” day on the calendar. Mugjenker suggests the following strategies to help lift consumers’ mood in January: 1. Identify why you’re feeling so low by completing the “Wheel of Life”
An exercise often used by life coaches to help people pinpoint their unhappiness. 2. Set yourself realistic expectations
Even if it means scrapping your original list of New Year’s resolutions.  2. Don’t procrastinate
The more you put things off, the more miserable you will feel.  4. Identify activities that reduce stress in your life
Make more room for them this year, such reading a good book, listening to music, spending time outdoors and so on.   5. Try and incorporate regular exercise as physical activity
This can release endorphins which reduce stress levels and make you feel happy.     6. Weeks of overindulgence can also leave you tired
So be sure to follow a nutritionally balanced diet to help boost your mood.  7. To deal with financial debt
Make sure you make decisions that won’t worsen the situation. If you’re in a real pickle, consult a debt counsellor for advice.      8. Stay positive
By expressing gratitude for what you have and acknowledging the good things in your life. Being grateful is key to contentment.  9. Don’t put a time limit on happiness
We often hear people say they will be happy when it’s holiday again or when they have more money, but doing so means wishing away valuable time. Rather embrace January and each month thereafter by filling your hours with things that add value to your life.    10. Plan fun
-It should be affordable activities throughout the year so there’s something to look forward to year-round.  For expert advice on how to identify and cope with mental illness, visit www.letstalkmh.co.za or contact Pharma Dynamics’ toll-free helpline on 0800-205-026, which is manned by trained counsellors who are on call from 08:00 to 20:00, seven days a week.
Source: Meropa Communications on behalf of Pharma Dynamics