 Central is Praia de Xai-Xai, south is Bilene and north is Chizavane and Chidenguele. Inland you have lovely national parks, which includes the district of Massingir where Mozambique’s second largest dam, Massingir Dam is situated. The City of Xai-Xai, 250km north Maputo, is the capital of Gaza Province and is situated on the banks of the Limpopo river. It is a bustling town with all the expected amenities together with rural markets and a municipal fish market with and excellent Portuguese bakery nearby. Praia do Xai-Xai (Xai-Xai Beach) (is approximately 12km from the main town. It has a long sweeping beach with safe swimming. Xai-Xai beach was a busy holiday destination in the 1960/70’s, but hotels were abandoned during the war days. Xai-Xai beach is coming back to life with accommodation from rustic to luxury, restaurants, bars and gorgeous beaches. Two reefs running parallel to the shore offers good snorkelling and swimming.  Following the Coast Line Chizavane is a small village between Xai-Xai City and Chidenguele (approximately 40km north of Xai-Xai). The road to the beach and resorts is a hard sand road and access to some of the resorts with a 2×4 is possible. Praia de Chizavane offers a wide open swimming beach that is peaceful and seldom filled with a lot of people, providing privacy to all holiday makers. Safe jogging or walking along the shore can be enjoyed for kilometres alongside the undisturbed nature and tranquility of the ocean. Enjoy fishing from the mussel invaded reef exposed during low tides and accessible by foot. An opening in the reef allows boats to be taken out into the deep sea. Chidenguele is 70 km north of Xai-Xai, the EN1 road to Beira winds to its closest brush with the Indian Ocean, only 5 km away. The countryside undulates gently, lush and green with pockets of coconut palms towering over cashew nut thickets – freshwater lakes dominate the area.  Here, in a clearing, lies the tiny, sleepy village of Chidenguele (meaning “The Highest Point” in the local, Chope language). The village may only have one short street, but its name is emblazoned proudly in white stone on the hill behind the sandy soccer field. The cathedral, crisp and white on the opposite hill, seems quite out of place with its stained-glass windows. The rustic, African market supplies whatever fruit and vegetables are available, but always beer and pao (Mozambican breadroll). From the village of Chidenguele, a scenic sand track meanders to the spectacular coastline only 5 km away. 5 km from the main road and Chidenguele Village, is lake Nhambavale with a depth of 35 metres. Resorts situated around the lake offer numerous water sports. Given its importance, the river hosted the canoeing competitions of the 10th African Games that took place in 2011. It is navigable up to Quissico, Inhambane Province. 2 km away is the Indian Ocean where visitors can enjoy beautiful beaches, watch and take pictures of whales, turtles and other marine animals. The local communities are well-known for their hospitality and offer varied services. A wide range of accommodation is available.