 Wednesday marked the beginning of the school year, once again laying bare the mounting problems faced by government-run schools and the provincial Department of Education. School placement for new pupils continues to frustrate parents, who are dependent on the public system to educate their children.  ALSO READ:Crisis over too few places for Lowveld grade ones  Parents of children with special needs face even more frustration.
And aside from the thousands of happy grade ones who started their school careers this week, learner retention in the system casts a dark cloud over many of their futures. School placement
Last year a number of learners were unable to start on the first day of school, since they had not yet been placed at a public school. DA ward councillor Tersia Marshall said there was a definite improvement this year. “The principals of all the schools in Mbombela worked together to try and address the problem.” Yet on Wednesday about 60 learners remained on the waiting list at Nelspruit Primary and 36 at Laerskool Laeveld. According to a source with knowledge of the problem, parents will have to wait for 10 days for a circuit meeting to be held and, just like last year, they will then be allocated to various schools in and around Mbombela. One parent who lives in Stonehenge applied for a space for his grade one child last year in July 2018. This week the child remained on the waiting list.  ALSO READ:The cost of grade 1 adds up for many parents  “Last year we applied on time at Nelspruit Primary and Laerskool Laeveld and we were told that we are on the waiting list,” he told Lowvelder. “What I do not understand is that it is the beginning of the year and they tell us that we still have to wait for 10 days when we do not know what will happen. Private schools are expensive and we cannot afford the school fees there.” He said the department should provide schools with temporary mobile classrooms while they build more classes.
“Most of the schools have big yards. Building classrooms and schools should be the main priority for the department. “They should also consider adding more English classes in Afrikaans schools,” he added. “The problem is that in this area the last school that was built was in 1982 and a new one is needed,” added the source, who remained anonymous for professional reasons. When the provincial budget was adjusted in November, the Department of Education received an additional allocation of about R100 million. Department spokesman, Jasper Zwane, said some of these funds will be used for constructing additional classrooms.
He could not say which schools would get additional classrooms until the department could determine which had children on their waiting lists. Zwane said due to some children being on waiting lists at multiple schools, it took the department some time to determine exactly how many learners had not been placed. Schools in Mbombela, eMalahleni, Steve Tshwete, Ermelo and Secunda have the most placement challenges. “Principals and circuit managers are working around the clock to place learners on waiting lists.”
He stated that they were busy building new schools around the province. “We have ironed out many issues with zoning with local municipalities.”  Special needs education
A source who works in the industry stated that the province only catered for severely disabled children and mainstream education, but nothing in-between. “What about all the children who are not severely disabled but have learning disabilities? They get lost in the system. Classes in mainstream schools are so large, a child who has learning disorders cannot cope and normally drops out of school. Our province needs more schools for specific disabilities.” She added that some schools had remedial classes, but it they often failed to meet the learners’ needs. “You cannot have 60 children in a remedial class. That defeats the purpose.” According to DA provincial leader, Jane Sithole, the province has 18 special schools which cater for approximately 4 500 severely intellectually disabled learners. “There are 140 all-inclusive schools which cater for learners with mild intellectual challenges on a primary school level. There is not a single high school that is all inclusive. The questions we want answered is why all parents of disabled children have to pay school fees where in quintile one, two and three schools parents do not have to pay a fee.” She added that these learners faced massive transport problems. “Disabled schools have to buy their own transport, and a teacher has to accompany the learners to and from their destinations, as they have to be monitored.” Zwane also told Lowvelder that the department was planning to build a school for the deaf in Mbombela this year. According to Sithole, MEC Sibusiso Malaza had stated the department had put R5 million aside for the school.
“We have been waiting for three years for this school. Malaza assured us that it will happen this year, so we are waiting.” Matric results 
Sithole says learner retention remains a key concern. She said 90 201 registered for grade 10 in 2016. Yet only 58 401 learners registered to write the 2018 matric examination. Of them, only 44 612 wrote the full exam. “Malaza must come clean on where these pupils disappeared to and what plans are in place in terms of learner retention to assist learners to stay in school and complete grade 12,” she said. Zwane urged parents whose children were still not placed to be patient, as they would be assisted.