 Slowly the tiny ball in the wooden crate began to unwind. Its scales moved and a pointy nose followed by two black button eyes emerged. Natalie Rogers was entranced. The baby pangolin unwrapped its tail, holding out its front legs and gazed at her, asking to be picked up. It was love at first sight. Rogers is a veterinary nurse, used to caring for all sorts of African animals – but this young pangolin is a first for her.  Photo: Neil AldridgeRamphy, named after the good Samaritan who had seen it fall off the back of a pickup and bounce onto the tarmac, was taken into Rhino Revolution in Hoedspruit at the end of October. It is thought that his mother was also on the vehicle, having been taken by poachers to be sold – alive or frozen – as food and fake medicine in Asia. Rogers recalls that when Ramphy first arrived, he used to shake every time she opened his box. “It was heart-breaking to realise that he was trembling from fear, missing his mother and terrified what this human was going to do to him. He has now calmed down and it touches my heart to see him with his little front arms outstretched, wanting to be picked up. He just wants to curl round my neck.” Young pangolins stay with their mother until they are about a year old, riding on their mum’s back, and so Ramphy wants close contact for reassurance. Photo: Neil Aldridge He is one of eight pangolins that have been brought into the Rhino Revolution Orphanage since September. Rhino Revolution has formed an alliance with the African Pangolin Working Group to provide a rehabilitation service and centre for pangolins being seized from poachers in the Lowveld. READ MORE: Two suspects arrested for illegal possession of pangolin These animals are now the world’s most illegally traded mammal. They are being seized from poachers by the Hemmersbach Anti-Poaching Unit. After being kept illegally in captivity the pangolins are arriving severely compromised – very stressed, badly malnourished and dehydrated. The rescued pangolins require round-the-clock, 24/7 medical care and support. They are fed with a supplementary protein feed, via a feeding tube, to try and improve their nutrition. Photo: Neil Aldridge At night, if well enough, the pangolins are “walked” in the bush for them to find their own food supply of ants and termites, to encourage natural feeding behaviours and dietary intake as soon as possible. They are accompanied by an armed guard for security reasons. “It is exhausting work, looking after the pangolins,” explained Rogers. “Pangolins are mainly nocturnal, and walking in the bush can take many hours every night. I am amazed to see their different personalities. Pumpkin, who was brought in on Halloween, is so feisty and brave whereas Aura (named after the windy weather on the day she was rescued) is very timid and nervous. “Poor Ramphy is still too little to really walk much at night, but he comes along for the ride, as he is awake at night and wanting cuddles.” Rhino Revolution’s aim is to release the pangolins back into the wild as soon as possible, once they are healthy and weigh more than five kilograms. Photo: Neil Aldridge The first have already been released, each wearing a GPS & VHF tracker, so their progress and well-being can be monitored remotely. They are being released into secure reserves in areas as near to where they were found as possible, and monitored remotely by researchers. READ MORE: Hong Kong failing to tackle wildlife smuggling epidemic: study “The hardest thing about caring for pangolins is how little is known about them,” Rogers said. “This dramatic escalation in poaching has only just started. Everything we are doing and trying is new. It feels like we are at the cutting edge of the rehabilitation and re-wilding of this little-known animal. Photo: Neil Aldridge “Most people don’t know what a pangolin is, and even fewer have been lucky enough to see one in the wild. But they just don’t seem to tug at the heart-strings – or wallets – like orphaned rhino. “We run the real risk of them becoming extinct before most people have even heard of them.” Rhino Revolution’s veterinary and husbandry costs are rapidly escalating. If you would like to help or learn more, visit rhinorevolution.org. Visit Conservation Action Trust here.