 KANYAMAZANE – The residents of this divided township could agree on at least one thing when Lowvelder visited the area on Friday: the rain is not a good thing. This has been a shared opinion since 2 130 houses were damaged by a hailstorm last year, which led to leaks and flooding in their homes as the rainy season continued.  The residents have also now been divided into those whose houses have been attended to and those whose have not. A deadline for the complete rehabilitation of the first set of 1 050 houses was set at the end of December by the Department of Human Settlements and the premier, Refilwe Mtshweni.  According to the department’s spokesman, Freddy Ngobe they are still about 50 homes short of meeting their target. ALSO READ: Residents of KaNyamazane still roofless “The department managed to rehabilitate nearly 1 000 houses by the end of December, translating to 98 per cent, while others are at various stages of completion, which includes roofing, plastering, painting, ceiling and electrification,” Ngobe said.  Apart from the fact that yet another deadline was missed by the department, it is also now setting neighbour against neighbour as the residents anxiously wait to see if a contractor will pitch up at their house or not. An example of this is Chris Hani Street neighbours, Josefina Ngomane and Robina Mondlane.  On Friday contractors delivered the building material to erect a new roof for Mondlane with a promise that they would start with labour yesterday. Ngomane, on the other hand, was still waiting, as they claimed that the department told them that her name was not on the list of those that would receive new roofs.  When previously asked about the list, Ngobe said, “The department conducted a comprehensive and professional condition assessment of the damage to determine the scope of works and households to be assisted. The Condition Assessment Report forms the basis of government intervention.” ALSO READ: VIDEO UPDATE: Protests at KaNayamazane “We cannot sleep at night when it rains, because everything gets wet and then we also do not have electricity. At this stage we are not even sure if it will be fixed,” said a very disheartened Vuyisile Nkambula, who lives with Ngomane.  Meanwhile, the budget crisis has also not yet been resolved, as the department are still awaiting for an additional R100 million from the national department. “However, the work at hand is continuing by reprioritising internal resources to ensure that the houses are being restored. The contractors on site, department and other role players remain committed and are working tirelessly to ensure that the houses are being rehabilitated as soon as possible,” Ngobe said.  According to him, the first batch of houses will be fixed by the end of January, although he did not give a date as to when all the houses will be repaired.