 South African national teams did exceptional well in the year 2018 to book their places in various tournaments. Let’s have a look which tournaments our national teams will be competing in 2019. 1 – The South African Rugby team The Springbok have qualified for the 2019 Rugby World Cup, which will kick off on Friday, September 20 as nations from all across the globe compete for the William Webb Ellis Trophy in Japan. The opening stage of the competition sees 20 teams attempt to battle their way out of four Pools – A, B, C and D. Each Pool
contains five teams and only two can advance into the knockout rounds. South Africa are in Pool B alongside New Zealand, Italy, Namibia and the Repechage winner – either Canada, Germany, Hong Kong or Kenya. The Springboks should qualify comfortably from their Pool, alongside the All Blacks. It’s all about who finishes top. First place will play the runner-up in Pool A. Second place will play the winner of Pool A. Ireland and Scotland are the two most likely
qualifiers from Pool A. Both the Boks and the ABs will want to avoid the Irish. 2 – The South African Women’s soccer team Banyana Banyana as the women’s team are known, made history by qualifying to the biggest in world football, the Fifa Women’s
World Cup in France next year. The Desiree Ellis led side reached the stage after coming as a runners-up during 2018 Africa Women’s Cup of Nations that was held in Accra. Banyana Banyana lost 4-3 on penalties to defending champions Nigeria in the final at the Accra Sports Stadium. Nigeria and Ghana are other two African teams that will compete at the World Cup. 3 – Will Bafana Bafana host the Africa Cup on Nations?  The South African men’s national teams are expected to host the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. The African showpiece event will take place in either Egypt or South Africa, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) confirmed. They were the only two countries to announce their candidature publicly before the list closed on November 30. Cameroon had originally beaten bids from Algeria and the Ivory Coast to win the right to host the tournament but, citing construction
delays and question marks over security, were withdrawn as hosts by CAF last month. A statement issued by CAF said: “Concerning the process to agree on a new host country of the Africa Cup of Nations 2019 (AFCON), the Confederation Africaine de Football (CAF) confirms that: formal applications have been received from the Egyptian and South African football associations to host the AFCON 2019.” South Africa has hosted the tournament twice before, in 1996, when they won, and in 2013 when they stepped in to replace Libya. They are also the only African nation to host the World Cup, in 2010. Egypt have hosted the event three times, notably in 1986 and, most recently, 2006, when they won the finals after penalty shoot-outs. The statement added: “A CAF Extraordinary Executive Committee Meeting will take place in Dakar, Senegal on January 9, 2019 to agree on the new AFCON 2019 Host Nation”.