 The South African feature documentary, STROOP – Journey into the Rhino Horn War, is coming to White River. The film that won the coveted Best Documentary award at the prestigious San Diego International Film Festival will be screened at Casterbridge on February 2 at 14:00 and 18:00. Tickets can be booked at webtickets.co.za. Filmmakers, Bonné de Bod and Susan Scott scooped several awards for this film. At the LA-based Glendale International Film Festival, they received the Best Female Filmmakers award. From the city’s premier film festival, LA Femme, which supports women producers from around the world, they were awarded the Special Documentary of Focus Award. The film also received the Best Documentary award at the San Pedro International Film Festival, and the 2018 Green Tenacity Award by the judges of the San Francisco Green Film Festival. STROOP – Journey into the Rhino Horn War tells the shocking and touching story of the ongoing poaching of rhino and the trade in its horn. In an exclusive first, De Bod and Scott filmed special ranger units inside the Kruger National Park and at the home of the white rhino, the Hluhluwe iMfolozi Park. The pair also travelled undercover to the dangerous back rooms of wildlife traffickers and dealers in China and Vietnam. The result is a powerful, hard-hitting and incredibly moving documentary that will challenge and shock viewers. The film premiered in South Africa in 2018. De Bod is well known as an award-winning wildlife television presenter. She was on South Africa’s popular wildlife and environment programme 50/50 for seven seasons and is also a special correspondent for SABC’s Newsroom. In addition, her series, Rhino Blog, was on DSTV’s People’s Weather Channel. Winner of an ATKV Mediaveertjie, De Bod has also been awarded the prestigious SANParks Kudu Award for best journalist. Her in-depth knowledge on the rhino poaching crisis has led to her facilitating discussions on illegal wildlife trafficking for the United Nations Environmental Programme as well as talks on radio, at film festivals and wildlife symposiums. Director Scott is a Johannesburg-based filmmaker, producing stories on wildlife issues for various international broadcasters. Prior to her directing work, she was a film editor for 17 years, cutting for some of the best wildlife filmmakers. Scott studied in the US, graduating from Baylor University with a degree in telecommunications. She won an editing apprenticeship in Washington DC with Tony Black ACE, and she went on to edit with him for several years before heading back to South Africa. Awarded the prestigious acronym from the editors’ guild of South Africa, Scott has gone on to win several awards for her work, among them three SAFTAs, a Jackson Hole Wildlife Film Festival Award as well as SAB environmentalist of the year for her writing and photography. STROOP – Journey into the Rhino Horn War was her first documentary feature film.