 The summer season comes with outdoor activities such as children playing in the pool or a nice afternoon braai, however, the City of Mbombela Local Municipality Emergency Services urged residents to be safe when using products to start a braai fire.  As many agents and products for starting braai fires are sold, many of them are unfamiliar or have not passed a quality assurance test at the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS).  Many illegal gel substances are sold at a cheaper price from local markets or on the street.  “The danger of these cheap imitation products is that they probably use illegal substances that have a very high and dangerous flashpoint when you ignite them. This may cause burn wounds due to people using these agents without knowing the dangers,” said the metro council.  The Tshwane Emergency Services appealed to the community to buy products they were familiar with and were SABS approved.  “The compact solid commonly known as Firelighters is probably the safest due to the material used to produce it, and the flashpoint for ignition is not that high. The piece that you use to set it alight will start to burn slowly and heat will spread evenly throughout the product,” the council said.  The metro council provided the following safety tips:  Make sure that you are familiar with the product and the safety measures to use it before you ignite a fire. Always store flammable agents in a dry, well-ventilated area. Check for expiry dates and the ingredients used to manufacture these products. Try not to inhale the fumes that are released when these products are opened. Use a lighter with a long handle to ignite the product to minimise burn wounds to your hands. Never allow your children to ignite barbecue fires. Keep them away from all fires. When you use a product that has a very strong smell, make sure that the product is approved and keep in mind that ignition might be very quick and dangerous due to the amount of burning fluid. Never use any flammable liquid to ignite a fire or to increase the heat of an existing fire. This includes petrol, paraffin, benzene and, in severe cases, aerosol cans, etc. Use as little as possible of the igniting agent to start a fire in order to minimise the risk of burn wounds. Never store flammable agents close to the barbecue or fireplace. If a person sustains burn wounds from open flames, get the patient to a medical facility as quickly as possible. If your clothes catch fire, STOP, DROP AND ROLL until the flames are extinguished. Never tear clothes off skin that has sustained burn wounds. Only use cold water to cool down a burn wound and transport the patient to a medical facility as quickly as possible. Keep a fire extinguisher close to your braai area or gas griller. Always keep emergency numbers close by and educate your children on the dangers of fire. Teach them not to play with it. Take the utmost care when you ignite fires and make sure to extinguish them before you leave the area.