 BARBERTON – Fifteen impoverished families from Emjindini ushered in the new year with brand-new houses. This was thanks to the DD Mabuza Foundation, which was established by deputy president David Mabuza back in 2014 on his 54th birthday. Mabuza started his drive in the area on Christmas Eve, when he gave 10 families their new houses, groceries and furniture. The houses each have three bedrooms, a kitchen, a living room and a bathroom.
Mabuza said construction started in August last year. He said through local councillors and other stakeholders, his foundation requested that 15 needy families be identified as benefciaries. “The delivery of the houses is a long-standing arrangement after we identified that there were severe housing shortages in the area. We started to build these houses in August for those identified families. Today (December 24), we are here to officially hand over the houses. This is their Christmas gift. Most of these families have never had proper houses in their lives,” said Mabuza. He said his foundation will also extend the construction of houses to the other provinces in the country.
Mabuza delivered 10 houses on Christmas Eve. He returned again on New Year’s Eve to hand over the remaining five houses. He said government was working alongside the minister of human settlements (Nomaindia Mfeketo) to identify land to build houses for people. “The government doesn’t want to build these houses anywhere but close to where the people work. Also, these houses will be built in the same area, not to build one house here and another one there,” added Mabuza. During his walkabout on both days, Mabuza interacted with people on the streets, gave out ANC T-shirts and urged them to vote for the party next year during the general elections. Read More:   Mabuza says he never appointed Malema “We live for the ANC. Don’t forget to go and register to vote for them. Tell everyone to vote for the ANC, because it took us out of Egypt. Tell those who left the ANC to come back home. We are what we are today, because of the ANC,” added Mabuza. The mood was jubilant when the residents were given keys to their new homes.
Mahlasela Mandlazi, one of the beneficiaries, said he was very excited to usher in a new year in a brand new house. “I benefited from an RDP house many years ago but it was poorly built and was starting to fall apart. I would not have been able to afford to build myself my own house. Thanks to the DD Mabuza Foundation, DD Mabuza and all those who identified me. I have been an ANC member through thick and thin and it never crossed my mind to vote for anyone else. Now by building me this house, the ANC has cemented its love in my heart. It showed that it is a caring political party,” said Mandlazi.