 BARBERTON – No teaching and learning took place at Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) College, Barberton Campus in the first week for the class of 2019. The bone of contention was students’ demand that more of them be accommodated. Instead college management has decreased the intake numbers for some of its courses. Last year the campus enrolled 200 students in public management, 180 in financial management and 120 in engineering. This year the projected intake is 45 students in public management, 45 in financial management and 45 in engineering studies. Menzimuzi Masilela, chairman of the student representative council (SRC), said there would be no classes until the management buckled to their demands. “We met with the campus management on January 8 and we did not reach a consensus on the issue of enrolment for the 2019 academic year. “We as the student representatives want an intake of 250 in public management, 250 in financial management and 180 in engineering studies,” said Masilela. Read More: Barberton’ TVET students boycott classes He said their request to increase enrolment is based on the fact that so many learners passed matric last year. He added that they would be willing to sacrifice their demands only if the campus management enrolled the same number of students in each course as last year. The campus was expected to resume its studies on Monday. But the SRC refuses to allow this to continue if the enrolment of students is not met. On Tuesday and Wednesday the students camped outside campus. Police visibility could be seen inside the grounds. Traffic on the busy General Street was affected by some students. Later on Wednesday afternoon, they marched to the Barberton Police Station where they held a meeting with campus management. The latter is reportedly too afraid to meet with the students on campus. Yesterday, classes did not occur. Spokesman for Ehlanzeni TVET colleges, Mxolisi Ndzimande requested all enquiries to be emailed to him. Unfortunately at the time of going to press, he had not yet responded.