 SABIE – The two-month long strike at York Timbers has finally been resolved. The more than 1 800 workers reported back to duty this week after the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and the employer reached an agreement. This was confirmed by both the Numsa regional secretary, Esau Tau and York Timbers country manager, Sixolile Msayi. The mass of workers went on strike on November 14. York applied the no work, no pay principle to all the workers. Workers faced a bleak Christmas until the Gift of the Givers assisted them with food vouchers. According to Tau, they agreed that Numsa be recognised as the labour union representing the workers and the withdrawal of all scheduled disciplinary hearings against the employees. Read More: Strikers appeal for food parcels “We have agreed that the five workers who were facing serious misconduct charges have been suspended for a month without pay. The contract with Phoenix Security will also have to be reviewed. “We have also agreed that the members of board of directors who resigned after they were allegedly intimidated by the company CEO, Piet van Zyl, should be given an opportunity to reapply for their positions. We agreed that the outcome of the investigation of Van Zyl should also be made available for the union.” Tau said it was a victory for the workers. He said they always believed that they were striking for what they believe was rightfully theirs. Also Read:  York strike negotiations deadlocked “Our workers started to return back to work on January 14 and the last batch returned on January 16. This is after the employer met almost all our demands. We view this as a victory not only for York Timbers employees, but for the working class in the country,” he said. Msayi said York was pleased to confirm that the strike had been resolved.
“All employees returned to work on January 16 after verification by all stakeholders accepted Numsa as the majority union. The company has entered into a formal recognition agreement with Numsa. All parties agreed to work together to rebuild York and bring normality to operations as soon as possible,” confirmed Msayi. He added that they would like to thank all the stakeholders for their support during this challenging time.