 MBOMBELA – Eskom’s application to increase its tariffs by 15 per cent has garnered sufficient interest from local stakeholders to allow the scheduled public hearing to continue. The National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) announced this week that the hearings which were due to take place in Kimberley (Northern Cape) and Polokwane (Limpopo) have been cancelled “due to the low public interest to present at the hearings.” Nersa is conducting the hearings to get input from the public on Eskom’s application for an average annual electricity increase of 15 per cent for three years. Stakeholders had to apply to the regulator to make representations. In Mpumalanga, the hearing will take place next Friday. They started in Cape Town on Monday where Eskom Group chief executive officer, Phakamani Hadebe, apologised to South Africans for recent governance lapses and load-shedding. In a statement released by Eskom he said that the power utility needed the increase to continue to provide electricity but that it would not in itself restore Eskom’s financial sustainability. Eskom’s debt has increased 10-fold from 2007/08 to 2017/18, while tariffs have gone up five-fold. Hadebe said Eskom understood that an increase may be difficult at this time, but that not being granted a suitable increase could lead to an unsustainable financial position for Eskom, “which would put the country in an even more dire economic condition”. “Due to various factors, the tariff was increased at below inflation for the past two years. At its present level, it is insufficient to enable Eskom to cover the prudent and efficient costs, including the servicing of debt obligations, which – as the IMF recently commented – will result in Eskom’s debt posing the single biggest fiscal risk factor to the country.” Read More: Eskom is sabotaging us’ businesses say Eskom chief financial officer, Calib Cassim indicated that the parastatal has made every effort to control its operating expenditure, but it needed more revenue through price increases. “Eskom’s financial situation is unsustainable. This is illustrated by the targeted loss for the 2019 financial year resulting in over R15 billion. This in itself will be a challenge due to the recent additional costs associated with trying to keep the system going. “Restoring operational performance comes at a cost which must be funded and recovered through revenue requirements.” Cassim added that Eskom’s application was substantially driven by the under-recovery of revenue due to lower sales as well as cost variances relating to primary energy costs and that the 15 per cent would not fully cover Eskom’s debt commitments. “If we want to change and make Eskom’s balance sheet sustainable, in addition to Eskom containing its costs, we need to change its returns by prices going up and get it to what is allowed,” he said.
The local public hearing will take place on January 25 at the Orion Hotel in Mbombela.