 MBOMBELA – “It’s so sad that you are gone, my love. I never thought you would leave us so soon. I wanted you to take pride when your kids graduate and I wanted you to walk your beautiful girls down the isle when they get married. I wanted us to cherish our grandchildren together. Now you are gone, but I am sure that you are at peace and God is with you.” These were the words of Joseph Mabuza’s wife, Winnie, on his funeral that was held on December 29 at Communio Church. The 47-year-old Mabuza, a senior communications manager at the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison, passed away on December 23 after a collision occurred between a motorbike he was travelling on and a bakkie. The Mabuza family: Nthabiseng, Bheki, Jason, Winnie, Khensani and Joseph. The vehicle allegedly made a U-turn on the N4 towards Mozambique just before the Nkomazi toll gate and the driver, who allegedly fled from the scene, was charged with culpable homicide. On the day of his funeral provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlati told Lowvelder that they have managed to establish the identity of the driver of the bakkie. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Breakthrough in Mabuza’s case as he is laid to rest “The bakkie does not belong to the driver, but to the business he was working for. The owner has been found and is cooperating with the police to track down the suspect,” Hlati said. He did not want to go into details regarding the investigation and asked members of the public to assist them with information regarding the case. Representatives from various motorcycle clubs paid their respects.  Meanwhile, not one soul had anything but kind words to say about the father of four at his memorial service, also held at Communio Church on December 27. Simon Zwane, friend and colleague of Mabuza and representative of the Road Traffic Management Corporation, gave a very memorable tribute. “The spear has fallen, but he would not have wanted us to mourn for a long time. He would want us to pick the spear and carry on with the good works that he has done. He was a true mentor to me,” Zwane said. Another long-time friend and colleague of Mabuza, David Nkambule, spoke on behalf of the Mpumalanga Government Communication Forum. In his heartfelt memorial he spoke about Mabuza as a journalist, as a communicator in the government and as a person. David Nkambule at the memorial service. “His writing and journalistic skills are not matched. He died with his boots on like a soldier,” Nkambule said and added that he will be truly missed. An especially moving tribute was the one given by Mabuza’s motorcycle club, Sun Riders, wherein they said “an injury to one is an injury to all”. But the most heartfelt words were Winnie’s final words, “You are already missed my love. May your soul rest in perfect peace till we meet again.” ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Mpumalanga safety and security spokesman killed in crash