 The unique example, designed in synergy with the customer and Centro Stile Lamborghini, is road-approved but designed primarily for use on the track. The Lamborghini SC18 paves the way to further personalised development projects for motorsport customers under the Squadra Corse brand.  The car features extreme aero-dynamics, developed specifically for this model and derived from Squadra Corse’s experience in competition. ALSO READ: Vehicles’ roadworthiness and drivers’ fitness a priority this festive season The racing elements start from the front hood, with air intakes in the style of the Huracán GT3 EVO. The sides and rear feature fenders, fins and airscoops inspired by the Huracán Super Trofeo EVO.  The aerodynamic system is completed by a large carbon-fibre wing with three mechanical adjustments, able to generate the optimal downforce on any circuit. In addition, the 12 air intakes formed on the rear hood – a solution already tested successfully in endurance races – increase heat exchange and improve the cooling of the V12 engine.  The power train is top-of-the-line Lamborghini, delivering the performance of a true racing car: the aspirated 6498 cm3 V12 delivers 580kW and 720Nm, all handled via the ISR (Independent Shifting Rod) optimised seven-speed gearbox. The huge power is combined with reduced weight thanks to the use of ultralight materials and the new carbon-fibre body, with ground clearance of just 109mm.  The rear is characterised by the specific exhausts and terminals with a unique design and sound. The exclusiveness of the Lamborghini SC18 is underlined by the color of the carbon-fibre body in the Grigio Daytona (grey), with visible details and red screen-printing to enhance its sportiness. ALSO READ: Take the risk out of buying a second-hand car The cockpit features interiors in Nero Ade (black) Alcantara with cross-stitching in Rosso Alala (red), and carbon-fibre bucket seats.  The look is completed by the single-nut wheels, 20″ on the front and 21″ on the rear, with specially developed Pirelli P Zero Corsa tyres and a telemetry system to measure all aspects of performance on the track.