 BARBERTON – Repairs after a lightning strike at Barberton Secondary School are expected to continue past the first day of classes on Wednesday January 9. The Mpumalanga Department of Education has, however, assured that lessons will not be affected as it will do everything possible to assure that the school’s reopening is not affected. A total of seven classes were totally destroyed when lightning struck the school buildings and set them alight on Thursday, December 20. Jasper Zwane, Department of Education spokesman said a team from infrastructure was sent to the school to conduct a technical assessment and to compile a report for consideration by the management. “The department remains committed to working with stakeholders to resolve the current state of affairs in this school. MEC Sibusiso Malaza visited the school on December 28 to assess the damage caused and to discuss with management and members of the school governing body a plan to put interim measures in place for teaching and learning when schools reopen on January 7, 2019,” said Zwane. He said as part of an interim measures, the department will temporarily set up mobile classes. The school re-opens next Monday and classes are expected to resume on Wednesday. Hi-Tech Security Barberton’s Sakkie Dednam told Lowvelder that the lightning struck the school at exactly 02:54. Read More: Lightning strikes a school in Barberton “One of my officers saw the lightning hit the roof and travel over the rooftops. My guys got there quickly, about three minutes later. The school was ablaze already,” said Dednam. He said the lightning had caused an electrical fire so all the cables had been burned. “The top floor was burned down and the bottom floor has water damage,” he added. Dednam said the school had a good reputation in the area. “It is one of the best schools in our area. They have fantastic matric results every year. The children who attend are not from rich families. They have about 800 learners. I am worried what is going to happen to them, as it will take years to rebuild,” added Dednam. Mthobisi Sithole, school principal, said parents and learners must not panic. “When the learners return back to school on Wednesday, the school will be operational. We have met with the MEC (Sibusiso Malaza) and delegates from the public works to find out operational plans to renovate the schools. We agreed that 15 mobile classes and a toilet will be delivered before Wednesday January 9 to allow teaching and learning to resume without glitches on the first day,” he said.