 BARBERTON – The provincial commissioner of the SAPS in Mpumalanga, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, has welcomed a 75-year sentence meted to Gerhardus Botha (42) for raping three women in the province and in Gauteng. According to Brig Leonard Hlathi, Mpumalanga police spokesman, the sentencing comes after the Brakpan and Bethal Regional Courts heard that he raped victims he had offered lifts to in separate incidents, which occurred in Brakpan during 2015, as well as in Barberton and Bethal in 2017. “In all these incidents, he used the same modus operandi, where he drove to a nearby bush, threatened the victims with a firearm, ordered them to undress, forcefully raped and robbed them of their belongings,” said Hlathi. He said the sequence of events indicate that Botha was arrested shortly after the Barberton incident. Read More: Rapist to serve 30 years in jail “However, the case was provisionally withdrawn pending DNA results. While the court was awaiting the results, Botha raped another woman in Bethal during May 2017. When the DNA results came back from the forensic laboratory, they positively linked him to all three cases, hence the sentencing,” added Hlathi.
Botha was sentenced as follows: For the Brakpan incident, he was handed 20 years’ imprisonment for rape and 15 years for the robbery, which will run concurrently. He was further given 15 years’ imprisonment each of the Barberton cases, which will also run concurrently. The court then ordered that five years of the effective term of the Barberton incident shall be served concurrently with the effective term of 20 years for the Brakpan case. “The narrative by the court indicates that the accused will serve an effective 30 years in prison for the Brakpan and Barberton incidents. For the Bethal incident, the accused was granted a direct 10-year jail term earlier this year after pleading guilty,” added Hlathi. Hlathi said Zuma appreciated the sterling work done by the investigating team in both provinces and hopes that the sentences will serve as a deterrent to other would-be criminals.