 MBOMBELA – The last chance for registration did not go off without a hitch this weekend. The majority of people who visited the stations did so to re-register after moving. They were also directed to the closest station to their residence and were not allowed to register at a particular station if their address did not fall within certain perimeters. Esmari and Cobus Grobler. Lowvelder found that Sunday was busier than Saturday at the venues it visited. Locals, Esmari and Cobus Grobler said that they had to re-register, as they both lived in different places before moving to Mbombela. “We are happy to be registered and we are definitely going to vote. It is a must,” the pair said. Ntombifuthi Phethwa, Brandon Lekhuleni and Gcinile Dlamini. Re-registering due to relocation was also the case for Wilson Maringa, the Mathebula family and Roland Killian. Boet Jordaan visited the registration station to find the closest place to his home where he could vote. ALSO READ: DA will bring lasting change, says chairman The 16-year-old Ntokozo Mathebula also attempted to register for the first time, although he was told that he was not allowed to do so as his birthday is too late in the year, however an official statement by provincial communications officer, Sibusiso Nkosi, before the weekend said that “Unregistered South Africans over the age of 16, who have recently relocated to the province or all those who want to know whether or not their address details appear on the voters roll are requested to visit their voting stations during the weekend.” According to Nkosi, provincial communications officer, they expect the national results to be released today. Chris Mathebula. “It went a lot better than we expected and we are very happy with the outcome,” Nkosi said. He added that they had a few challenges regarding protests in the province. “In the Lowveld the only protests we saw were in Duduma in Nkomazi where people were protesting about issues regarding the construction of the road. But all the incidents were resolved swiftly with help of the relevant authorities,” Nkosi said. ALSO READ: Safety tips for public transport