 MBOMBELA – Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison MEC Pat Ngomane has expressed his concerns regarding the involvement of minibus taxis in accidents, as they hold the lives of a lot of people in their hands. This came after a head-on collision between a minibus taxi and a truck left seven people dead and 13 injured. The amount of injured people was initially listed as 14 by medics on the scene. READ THE ORIGINAL ARTICLE HERE: BREAKING NEWS: Seven dead and 14 injured in head-on collision This accident brought the death toll of those involved in minibus taxi accidents since August 31, 2018 to at least 44. The accident happened on Saturday at about 06:30 near the Tekwane South turnoff on the KaNyamazane road. According to the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison (DCSSL) spokesman, Moeti Mmusi, it is suspected that the taxi, which was travelling from KaNyamazane towards the city, drove into the truck while the latter was turning.  Emer-G-Med’s Martin Jeffrey, who was on the scene, said that eyewitnesses alleged that the taxi was travelling at a high speed. Six passengers, as well as the driver of the taxi, died on impact while 13 others were transported to hospitals by various medical services. Jeffrey said that they wanted to airlift one of the seriously injured passengers, but the weather did not permit it. READ ALSO: BREAKING NEWS: Five people injured in accident at intersection at R40 and Samora Machel Drive “The taxi was overloaded by two passengers. DCSSL MEC, Pat Ngomane urged drivers of public transport to be more cautious, as too many lives get lost when accidents like this happen,” Mmusi said. According to Mmusi, Ngomane, Mbombela mayor, Cllr Sibusiso Mthonsi and minister of arts and culture, Nathi Mthethwa visited the scene of the accident on Saturday. Although the names of the victims have not been released to the media, Mmusi said that Ngomane will be visiting their families today.  The MEC for public works, roads and transport, Gillion Mashego, said in a statement that he was shocked by the accident. He pleaded with all road users to adhere to the rules of the road and exercise patience with one another in the interest of safety. “I would like to convey sincere condolences to the families and friends of the deceased and also wish the injured and all those who have been emotionally affected by this tragic experience a speedy recovery,” Mashego said.