 BARBERTON – DA Youth provincial chairman, Palesa Mabonga, said it was disgusting that 25 years into democracy, people are still living in unhygienic places like Extension 11 in Emjindini. She pleaded with the residents of Ward 45 to vote for the DA, as the party will restore their dignity. Mabonga was speaking during the party oversight inspection on Thursday. She was accompanied by Annerie Weber, chairman for the DA Women’s Network in Mpumalanga; City of Mbombela councillors, Phillip Minnaar and Elsabe Jacobs, as well as party members. Their visits started at the newly built Mkhize Park, where Mabonga expressed her dissatisfaction with the use of the money. Their next visit was to Extension 11, where they were welcomed by overflowing sewage. Mabonga said she was overcome by the stench that residents in this area have had to endure for months on end. Read More: Victim empowerment centres must reopen, says DAWN She said it was shocking that people had to live with a mass of rotting, green sewage on their doorsteps. “It is unthinkable that while big portions of roads, private properties and public spaces have become sludge farms, the municipality has done nothing concrete to resolve the issue, other than sometimes pumping out blocked drains and digging temporary trenches. The living conditions these families are subjected to in this area is inhumane,” added Mabonga. She said she was surprised as the once cleanest town under Umjindi Municipality has deteriorated after the merger to form the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM). “CMLM is the only City in the whole of Mpumalanga. The services for these residents were expected to improve, however, it has worsened. This clearly shows that the merger was not all about improving the lives of the people, but to enrich certain individuals within the ruling party,” continued Mabonga.
She pleaded with the local residents to give the DA a chance to govern. “Twenty-five years into democracy, people are still subjected to such horrendous living conditions. This is not what they voted for. We as the DA have a responsible councillor candidate in this ward, Mpumi Moyane. If the people would vote for the DA, they can receive better services that can bring their lost dignity back,” said Mabonga.