 BARBERTON – Former EFF chief whip in the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM), Lucky Shongwe has rebuked politicians who have built their lives solely on politics and not any career. Shongwe has returned to teaching after he was fired by the EFF in August. He has rejoined Barberton Secondary School after it reopened on January 7, teaching accounting for grades 10, 11 and 12. “Politics is a temporary thing. It will end at any given time, and so when you are deployed, you should know that the term will end. When the term ends, you must have something to go back to,” Shongwe cautioned. He said it was important in life to have a profession, and understand that politics was not a profession, as you can be recalled at any time. Shongwe has since rejoined the ANC. He is serving as a volunteer in Ward 44. Read More: Ex-EFF chief whip returns to the ANC He quit teaching in August 2016 to join politics full-time as the EFF chief whip in CMLM. He said for now he wants to channel his energy into his job as a teacher and he has no immediate desire to return to politics on a full-time basis. He said his reintegration to the teaching system has been smooth. “My duties as the EFF chief whip were mostly in administration and interacting with the community, the same as I do as a teacher. There is no huge difference. So, for me coming back to teaching has not been a problem. I still have the same passion for teaching, especially accounting, as I had before.” He added that he has lined up a number of programmes that will benefit learners. “One of these that I will introduce soon is accounting extra classes. I will offer all interested local matric learners accounting lessons free of charge. I will also assist local learners with applications for bursaries. What’s more, I will organise visits for grade, 11 and 12 learners to tertiary institutions during their open days for career exposure purposes,” Shongwe concluded. Anyone interested in getting involved with these programmes can reach him via  mshongwe@gmail.com.