 MBOMBELA – Conflict between the Nelspruit SPCA and the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) is reaching an all-time peak. This came after CMLM allegedly failed to honour its service agreement with the SPCA regarding funds and the removing of carcasses from its premises. According to Nelspruit SPCA chairman Lize Pienaar, the municipality has not collected the bodies since November. “There are more than 300 bodies in our fridge. It has gotten to such an horrific point that we have to step on some of them in order to place others on top,” a highly disgusted Pienaar said. She added that Barberton and White River SPCAs are struggling with the exact same problem. The SPCAs have threatened to drop off the carcasses in front of the municipal offices should this situation not be resolved by Friday. “I do not want to do something like this as it is very disrespectful to the animals, but at this stage I am at my wits’ end,” Pienaar said. The SPCAs are also still waiting on their grant from the municipality after official pound status was awarded to the three shelters in August. ALSO READ: KYK: Nelspruit DBV veg vir diere gedurende die feesseisoen Conflict around official pound status arose after the municipal amalgamation in August 2016 and, according to Pienaar, the SPCA has not received any grant since then. “We have to appoint a new inspector at our shelter, and we simply do not have the money to do so,” Pienaar said. She said donations and fund-raising helps a lot, but that they need the steady income to keep their doors open. The Nelspruit SPCA also applied for additional farm pound status early last year, but has since heard very little in this regard. Pienaar said meetings keep getting postponed. ALSO READ: No arrests yet after four dogs abandoned by owner She is furious. “We have a contract with the municipality that they are not adhering to. We deliver a service and deserve to be paid for it.” Lowvelder sent questions to municipality spokesman, Joseph Ngala, regarding all of the matters above. He said the City is of the view that the matter between the SPCA and the municipality is governed and protected by the service level agreement. “It will be highly improper for one party to discuss an agreement between two parties in the media without the consent of the other. Should the SPCA require clarity on any matter as contained in the agreement, they should have approached the City in that regard. The City remains committed to the service level agreement entered into with the SPCA, and has responded directly to them regarding their latest requests,” Ngala said. According to SPCA vice-chairman Ludi Botha, the municipality did contact him after the newspaper’s enquiry, but it did not give any solutions to the above-mentioned issues.