 MBOMBELA – Francis Hanekom will not rest until she has cleared her husband’s name. André Hanekom died in Mozambican police custody on Wednesday, two days after his 62nd birthday. The Mbombela native gained prominence in August after he was shot and detained by Mozambican law enforcement. He was eventually charged with a list of terror-related crimes. “He was innocent,” said Francis, his wife of 36 years, yesterday. “He was a regular person. What happened to us only happens in movies.” Her account has not been contradicted by Mozambican or South African authorities, which have only ever been able to offer scant information on the charges against André. Andre Hanekom dies in Mozambique in custody According to Francis, her husband was attacked by masked military policemen in Palma on August 1. He was ambushed, chased and eventually shot at point-blank range in the arm. The bullet also hit his stomach. He was taken by bakkie to hospital, with two men sitting on his back, “and his nose in his own blood”. Here he was placed under police guard. Francis said she was continuously assured they were guarding him to protect him from another attack by the perpetrators. However, when his operation was postponed, he was not allowed to leave. It was the start of her frustrations, as he had not been arrested or charged with anything, she says. Sometime in September they simply moved him from the hospital to a jail cell. According to his wife, André first appeared in court on October 9. ALSO SEE: Chaos as ATM’s in Mozambique are out of order He was granted bail and had to spend the night, as it was too late to complete the paperwork. But he was moved to a military base the next day. “They stole him,” she said. Francis was denied access to him until they came to search the couple’s house on November 6. André accompanied them. “He looked nervous, pale and thin,” she said. “What kind of policeman arrests a man for terrorism and only searches his property 99 days later?” She only saw him again on Sunday. He started getting convulsions in jail on Saturday and was admitted to Pemba Hospital. He struggled to breathe and had blood in his stomach, but improved every day. By Tuesday he was sitting up, but on Wednesday morning Francis was informed of his death. The couple relocated from Mbombela to Mozambique 26 years ago.  All five of their children were born in Rob Ferreira Hospital. They have four grandchildren, who now have to grow up without a wonderful grandfather. Francis teared up, “Children were so comfortable with him. It is so sad. “He abhorred underhand dealings like poison. There was no grey area with him. He wasn’t diplomatic, but he didn’t wear his heart on his sleeve all the time. He had a wisdom that sometimes amazed me.” She said the terror charges were invented to get André out of the way as people were after their marina in Palma, but he refused to sell. “We weren’t church people, but we lived our belief. We stood up against the lies, corruption and stories. We were not intimidated. I am very proud of him. He was a very special person. People like that are rare.” She insisted that his name has to be cleared. She wants to bring the body back to SA for an autopsy and burial. What will happen beyond that, she does not know. “I never in my life thought he wouldn’t come back from prison. I thought I would fight till my last breath and then ‘we’ would – I didn’t think he would die and ‘I’ would.” SEE OLDER REPORT: Andre Hanekom dies in Moz while in custody for terrorism Nettie Mabuza said she had worked for André for 12 years when he owned a business called Professional Protection Services (PPS). “Hanekom was a good man, he was not involved with criminals. His business used to be employing security to look after the mines near Barberton until the business was liquidated.” The Department of International Relations and Cooperation spokesman, Ndivhuwo Mabaya, said the South African high commissioner to Mozambique, Ambassador Mandisi Mpahlwa, has informed the minister of international relations and cooperation, Lindiwe Sisulu, that André’s wife had confirmed to him that he had died. “The minister has directed the high commissioner to urgently engage with authorities on the circumstances of his death and report back. “The minister would like to convey her sincerest condolences to the Hanekom family and friends,” he added.