 Fully imported to South Africa, the Athlete boasts increased safety and specification levels, which include seven airbags, Isofix child-seat anchors and a 3,1 ton towing capacity for any lifestyle equipment.  The sporty body-styling kit and matching interior seat trimmings, as well as the increased safety and specification levels, do not come at a premium, as this grandiose new derivative is launched at the same retail price of the standard Triton double-cab 4×4 automatic derivative. Although luxury, comfort, appearance, performance and a host of other features all work together to make the new Triton Athlete ideal for long-distance trips, occupant safety is like the last 100 metres in a relay or obstacle race; it is the most important consideration.  Boasting passenger luxury and comfort, no less than seven airbags (dual front airbags, side airbags, driver’s knee airbag and curtain airbag) as well as Isofix child-seat anchors, side-impact protection bars and a high-tensile steel body structure for more effective reinforcement, the Triton Athlete proudly fills the top step of the podium in its class. The prominent new Triton Athlete, with its bold orange and black highlights and exterior design cues with matching interior trimmings, caters for individuals and families who live life to the extreme, participating in adventure and sporty lifestyle activities such as surfing, mountain biking, paragliding, showjumping and even motocross or off-road motorcycling.  New black powder-coated diamond-cut 17″ alloy wheels, a stylish sports bar and an integrated tailgate spoiler, dark-grey and orange decals with black highlights found on the side steps, door mirrors, door handles, rear bumper and new tailgate complete the stylish exterior design that gives this vehicle an even more athletic appearance than its siblings.  The exceptionally quiet, insulated cabin boasts two-tone black leather seats with orange inserts. The orange theme is continued with “Athlete” embroidery matching the orange stitching found on the black leather seats, steering wheel, gear lever, door panels and the centre console.  The Triton Athlete is based on the international Triton Adventure X-development, which includes Bi-xenon HID headlamps, daytime running lights, multifunction steering wheel, shift paddles for the five-speed automatic transmission, an upgraded instrument display, a smart-key system with engine starter button and automatic dual-zone air-conditioning. Highlights of the Triton Athlete include the very refined class-leading 2.4-litre MIVEC VGT turbo-diesel engine producing 133kW 430Nm which together with the slick and accurate five-speed automatic transmission provides an impressive powertrain for highway driving, off-road adventure, urban agility and towing.  Excellent axle reticulation, renowned Super-Select II four-wheel-drive system and class-leading approach angle of 28°, departure angle of 22° and break-over angle of 25° make the Triton Athlete a mean off-road competitor as well, should you take part in extreme adventure activities. The Triton Athlete is launched at R559 995, a special launch price which is the same as the listed retail price of the standard Triton 4×4 Double-Cab A/T.  The new Triton Athlete comes standard with a three-year/100 000km manufacturer’s warranty and a five-year/90 000 km service plan. Service intervals are every 10 000km.