 It was much criticised at the time, but it endured nevertheless and has been distributed throughout Asia and Western countries. Of course, now it is in South Africa as well. I found some interesting facts about the Rush for your interest and enjoyment.  The Rush and the Terios are the same car sold under different names. There is no known record of the Rush ever being recalled. It is classified as a mini sports utility vehicle. At its initial release it was also referred to Terios Kid or Toyota Cami. In Indonesia it was also sold under the name Daihatsu Taruna.  But that’s enough history. I drove it over the past previous weekend and here are my words of wisdom about the Rush. And just for the record – here by us, it is referred to as a mini SUV. My initial thoughts, when I first saw it, was that its narrow design which may influence its road holding ability. Of course, after having had time to apply some more thought to it, I must admit that I quite like the exterior – everything about the exterior.  Those sharp design lines on the bonnet, the powerful bumper design and shoulder design – all the elements just sit well with my sense of proportion and energy. The front and rear skid plates energise the overall design and give it a rugged look and feel.  The strong horizontal lines at the rear present a dynamic look oozing confidence and stability.  Just beautiful! Of course, riding on 17″ rubber and boasting 220mm of ground clearance puts it in different league compared to its competitors. The short impression of the interior is that of symmetric and practicality par excellence. Boring, it is not. The chromes and taupe accent pieces and trimming prevent the dark interior from being sombre and claustrophobic.  The interior is exceptionally spacious, with 28% more luggage space than any of its competitors. It is a five-seater of such size that it probably can accommodate two more seats, but research has shown that most South Africans prefer more luggage space rather than extra seats. The rear seats can split 60/40 and one is then presented with enough space to carry the kitchen and the bathroom. And while on this, the seats are exceptionally comfortable and supportive, with more than just ample legroom in the rear.  The instrument cluster is large, offers highly legible graphics with a cool blue motif, is user-friendly and also offers an Eco indicator. The upper dashboard is home to a large touchscreen audio system equipped with Bluetooth, USB and both Apple and Android functionality and navigation as standard.  There is a six-speaker infotainment system. Millennials will have a field day in this vehicle, although I doubt whether it will be their favourite car to buy or even be seen in. ALSO READ: Ready to ride? Join the Cycle Tribe relaunch Park distance control and a reverse camera makes parking this larger-than-life vehicle a breeze. This is also supported by a light steering.  For open-road driving, I would prefer a little more weight on the steering though and, I suggest that Toyota adds arm rests to the front seats. Safety and security features include vehicle stability control, anti-lock braking, hill assist, six airbags, smart entry system with an alarm and immobiliser and more. The Rush is fitted with a normally aspirated 1,5-litre VVT-i engine producing 77kW and 136Nm. It drives the rear wheels through either a five-speed manual or four-speed auto box. And here’s the rub, as Shakespeare said. I drove the automatic and although it is not bad for town driving, it certainly can do with more power.  The manual may well be a tad sharper, but I suspect that even with a manual gearbox, it would be lacking for most SA drivers. The auto box performance, with both up and down shifting, is more than adequate and smooth enough for this segment. On-road performance, excluding the lack of power, is very impressive.  The suspension absolutely soaks up whatever is thrown at it. There is very little body roll through corners. So yes, on the road, it certainly gets my nod of approval. ALSO READ: Wheels are rolling for the Partners for Possibility Fuel consumption indexed at 10,5km/litre in town to 13+km/litre during open- road driving. It would probably improve somewhat with a more powerful engine. It’s a Toyota, and even with its slightly under-powered engine, it will, if properly cared for, last for at least five generations.  At the price (staring at just on R300 000) and inclusive of a three-year/100 000km warranty and a 90 000km service plan, I suggest it to be a definite shortlist transport option for families and/or otherwise active individuals.