 MBOMBELA – The new national minimum wage could not have come at a worse time. According to Henri Pieters from Stabilis, businesses simply cannot afford to pay it. Stabilis recently received Diamond Arrow Awards for excellence by PMR Africa as the best accounting and auditing firm and best business consultants in Mpumalanga. It is the second consecutive year it has won both. Pieters said they daily witness how local businesses are suffering due to the economy. SEE MORE: Best of Mbombela winners 2018 What with all the uncertainty and a looming election, nobody wants to invest. “Expropriation without compensation affects all assets, not only agricultural land,” Pieters  pointed out. “Other factors out of their control put businesses under dire pressure. SARS has a backlog in paying back their VAT, the fuel price hikes, increases in rates and taxes, water and electricity tariffs. All these are things they can do nothing about,” Pieters says. “The increases are a lot higher than inflation and if you don’t pay, action will be taken against you. And illegal electricity connections are so rife that those who pay, pay a lot.” Add to this the new minimum wage of R20 per hour, which came into effect on January 1. Businesses cannot afford it. Local industries are retrenching workers. “Some of them are letting go up to 25 to 30 per cent of their workforce. It will have a negative impact and a serious impact on unemployment.” It was supposed to ensure people have more expendable income, but results in some people being better off at the expense of those who lost their jobs. “So the poor get poorer. It could not have come at a worse time,” he stated. Salary costs tend to be a company’s highest expense, but you can only lose so many people to still be able to operate. Pieters suggested businesses cut costs and all luxuries where they can. What a luxury is, would depend on the type of industry, but all small things add up. He predicted that things should settle after the general elections in May. But now more than ever it is imperative that you stay competitive. “You must offer excellent service. The quality of your product must be of non-negotiable high standards, and you must ensure your prices are affordable. “The companies that can come through this will thrive once the economy picks up,” he said. ALSO SEE: Warm welcome from Blessing Crèche