 MBOMBELA – Social activist and Brazilian Lions Club member, José Geraldo de Souza Castro (62), is a man on a mission to raise awareness about the difficulties wheelchair bound people face every day. To bring attention to their plight, he is walking 50 kilometres a day pushing a wheelchair around Africa. Last week, he visited Mbombela, where he was hosted by Valerie and Michael Graham of the Nelspruit Lions Club, before he takes on 12 African countries, including Lesotho, eSwatini, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Malawi, Tanzania, Kenya, Ethiopia, South Sudan, Sudan and Egypt. “I aim to take more than 17 million steps to draw attention to the myriad obstacles faced by people living with disabilities,” he told Lowvelder last week. Michael Graham, Valerie Graham, José Castro and Feju Chandy of the local Lions Club. ALSO READ: Catherine Irving remembered in tearful tribute by family and friends This photographer, tourism technician, social activist, environmentalist and cyclist has visited war-torn countries, witnessed the ravages of famine and slept outside in the elements to get his message across. His social activism has garnered worldwide recognition, earning him the nickname Zé do Pedal (Pedal Joe) in his home country. He hopes to draw attention to the accessibility issues people with disabilities face through “Walking Africa – A World for Them”. His philosophy and approach is to eradicate the architectural and social barriers preventing them from participating in society at all levels. “People with disabilities do not want mercy, but equality, dignity and respect,” he added. ALSO READ: Up on a pole for a month As a Lions Club member, Castro’s approach is centred around the club’s four pillars of helping the youth, fighting diabetes, vision-related illnesses and being the first to assist victims of natural disasters around the world. “We think globally and act locally by isolating the issues that are prevalent in a particular community, and acting through our service to alleviate it. In Helen Keller’s words, we are the paladins against darkness in the world.” This is Castro’s third visit to Africa and he cites addressing stereotypes and harmful practices against people with disabilities, including those based on gender, as his top priority. Jose Geraldo de Souza Castro. ALSO READ: Minister of police to join police delegates on campaign to make the festive season safe “I was warmly received by the children, who introduced me to their great-grandfather.” The Nelspruit Lions Club regional chairman, Michael Graham, added, “Lions Club is the world’s best-kept secret and José’s story epitomises why the club was started. We aim to return balance to the world through helping where our help is needed,” he said.