 According to Arrive Alive, these are some precautions for all motorists, but particularly females travelling alone, to keep in mind. These can help you to stay safe and avoid becoming a crime statistic. Ensure that the vehicle you are travelling in is roadworthy. You do not want your car to break down, especially in a deserted area or at night. Service your vehicle when you have reached the mileage or annual service interval and make sure you always use a reputable workshop. Check the oil, water, brake fluid levels and tyre pressure regularly. Also, make sure you fill up when the petrol light comes on. People often tend to overestimate how much fuel is left. Know where you are going and plan your journey in advance by ensuring you have the correct directions to your destination. Have the directions ready or enter the destination in your GPS or preferred navigation app before embarking on your journey to avoid distractions en route and having to stop in a high-risk or quiet area. Always let a family member or friend know where you are headed and your expected arrival and/or departure times. ALSO READ: Top activities for children this festive season Always keep your car doors locked and windows closed. Avoid driving with valuables in sight – they are better kept in the boot or under the seats. While driving, be vigilant about where you are and your surroundings especially when driving in unfamiliar areas. This will help you to avoid a dangerous situation or even an accident. Keep in mind that a large number of hijackings still take place close to home or in driveways so turn off your radio and don’t be distracted by your cellphone when approaching home. Even looking alert might be enough to dissuade potential criminals. If you feel unsafe, head for a police station or drive to a busy area. Always park your vehicle in a well-lit, properly secured parking area, ideally with security guards on duty and as close to entrances and exits as you can. When you leave your car, make sure the doors are properly locked. Never just assume that the remote has in fact locked the doors. The extra few seconds it takes to make sure the vehicle is properly locked and secured are worth it. These days, vehicle trackers can offer so much more than stolen vehicle recovery. There are many different types of vehicle tracking services and added features and benefits available to the market that offer greater care and protection for the people that subscribe to them. Premium services can monitor your vehicle and send you notifications on standard risk events and may even offer roadside and medical assistance. With more inclusive services, as the driver you are able to share your journey with a friend or loved one ensuring that they know where you are and that you are safe. ALSO READ: SA personalities who passed away in 2019