 MBOMBELA – An animal lover and keen horse rider with an independent and adventurous spirit. These are just some of the words used to describe Catherine Irving, whose coldblooded murder last week Saturday
shook the Lowveld community to the core. A memorial service was held by Catherine’s family and friends in White River on Saturday to commemorate a life
ripped away too soon. Bertha Irving. ALSO READ: Reward issued for information on the murder of Catherine Irving The owner of Shamroc Cattery and Kennels, whose love for animals was the stuff of legend, held a reputation as a free
spirit who lived her dream taking care of animals. She was honoured by friends and family, who travelled from all corners of the Lowveld to bid her farewell. In an emotional address, her god-daughter, Desiré Miller, said, “She was fiercely independent and loved by many. She in turn, also loved many. She loved horses and animals and her farm was a safe haven for all animals and strays.” Miller shared a few anecdotes to illustrate Catherine’s passion for animals, adding that her home was always filled with animals and she was always up for adventure. Glynis Irving. ALSO READ: Cause of death of Catherine Irving confirmed Family friend, Rebecca Merensky paid a tearful tribute to her and said, “I am at a loss for words, but judging by the number of people here today, one can tell how much Catherine meant to others. “She was a fountain of information about animals and her capacity for love was unparalleled. Catherine was my hero and my inspiration. Do not remember the way she was taken from us, but remember her with every sunrise.” Catherine’s sister, Glenda, echoed these sentiments and said, “Catherine was the wild cat lady who was always gung-ho and ready to take on the world.” Desiré Miller. ALSO READ: Final respects to be paid to Cathy Irving Her mother, Bertha, was inconsolable during the service and was supported by friends and family. “We are missing you so desperately already, because you did not have the chance to complete living your dream on earth. Your adventurous spirit and love for all living things will remain with us,” her sister Glynis concluded. Rebecca Merensky. No arrests have been made in connection with Catherine Irving’s murder and a R100 000 reward has been offered by
friends, family and Bossies Community Justice for information which could put her killers behind bars. Tributes and condolences have flooded in on social media, especially from repeat customers of Shamroc Cattery and Kennels.