 MBOMBELA – The province was also given a morale boost by the visit of Minister of Police Gen Bheki Cele, and some of the top management on December 17 as part of their nationwide Safer Festive Season readiness tour. Approximately more than 7 000 suspects had been arrested for various crimes throughout the province to date. “The activities during the operations included stop and searches, visible policing, vehicle checkpoints, compliance inspections, road policing, visits to local liquor outlets, patrols in-and-around the border ports, visibility in shopping and business centres as well as in public areas,” Brig Leonard Hlathi recently said in a press release. Suspects were arrested for various crimes, including: murder, attempted murder, rape, robbery, possession of drugs (including marijuana), driving under the influence of alcohol, illegal possession of firearms and ammunition, and more. In addition, there were also firearms, vehicles, ammunition and motorcycles that were confiscated as a result of these efforts to turn the tide against crime. ALSO READ: Queues at Lebombo border stretching kilometres long “These successes that we have achieved so far during these operations imply that we are progressively moving towards a safer Mpumalanga, considering the high volume of visitors coming to this province at this time of the year. We want to reassure the public that we will continue to maintain safety in public spaces that were previously targeted by criminals during festive seasons,” said the provincial commissioner of Mpumalanga, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma. The provincial commissioner reiterated the call made by the police minister to close down all shebeens and to ensure that licensed owners of liquor outlets comply with the rules and regulations. “Failure to comply will lead to enforcing the law on them which might imply that their licences to operate could be revoked and they will have to reapply,” he said. Zuma also advised road users to have breaks where they stop and rest to avoid fatigue. “The public is also informed that the Mpumalanga Liquor Act puts it clearly that no one is allowed to drink in public spaces, which include in buses, taxis, even in their cars. Those who will disobey will risk spending their Christmas and New Year behind bars.” Zuma has also wished the community of Mpumalanga a lovely Christmas as well as prosperous and happy New Year. ALSO READ: 2020 will bring drought tariffs