 The Southern African Wildlife College (SAWC) recently celebrated its Founder’s Day in fine style; as has become an annual ritual.  According to Jeanné Poultney, marketing at SAWC, this day also highlights the fact that every staff member has jointly played a role in the organisation’s success. “This year, the staff got to know more about each other and each other’s hidden talents, whilst also looking at collective values and what their expectations are from one another.” She said that talent from across the organisation came out in full force, with the rest of the staff cheering each participating member or group on.  “Entries ranged from song to dance to poetry, with some drama, art and handwork also being included. The three judges certainly had their hands full when making a decision, but in the end once everyone had, had a chance to vote, it was a dance group that took top honour.” ALSO READ: Anti-poaching arrests four in KNP During the celebrations Theresa Sowry, the SAWC’s CEO, said that “integrity, commitment, teamwork and mutual support – especially given the increasing challenges faced by training institutions and by conservation professionals working in parks, reserves and protected areas – are vital to the success of an organisation.”  The executive team took the opportunity to honour the staff contributions that have helped establish the college as a leader in the field of conservation education, training and skills development. “Staff members who had helped build the institution, some since the establishment of the College, were recognised for their commitment and long service; emphasising the importance of each role played. This is in training, maintenance, hospitality and finance,” said Poultney. The Long Service Awards recognise staff who have been with the College from five years and longer. This year was very significant with four staff members being acknowledged for 20 years of service to the organisation. These stalwarts included: Idah Mnisi (cook), Vivian Mnisi (food services), Grace Ndlovu (database administrator) and Willis Zitha (maintenance supervisor/driver).