 “Many animals cause injury to themselves by jumping through glass windows, over spiked fences or by running into traffic. More family pets will run away from home during holidays involving fireworks than any other days of the year,” said Ludi Botha. He added that the loud bangs that often accompany fireworks cause animals great distress, fear and suffering as their hearing is far more acute than ours. • If possible, stay at home with your animals; • Make sure your animals have identification tags or microchips to ensure that they are returned safely when they are found; • If you can’t be at home with your animals, keep them inside and make sure that they have access to a safe place; • Ensure that they cannot escape or break through a window or slip out of a door; • Mask noise by drawing curtains and playing calming soothing music at a reasonable volume; • Put familiar and comforting things around them, such as toys and balls; • Provide them with something to do and keep them occupied, such as giving your dog a toy or giving your cat lots of catnip or a catnip toy. ALSO READ: Don’t get caught by fraudsters this festive season • If your pets do react badly to fireworks, then seek professional advice from your veterinarian ahead of time. • Some of the main risks to pets over the holiday season are from food including ingestion of cooked bones and Christmas decorations that can cause intestinal obstruction, or even pancreatitis from fatty meals. • Chocolate is toxic to dogs and cats, even in small quantities. • Avocados and macadamia nuts can be toxic to dogs. • Fatty foods like turkey skin, pork crackling and sausages can lead to inflammation of the pancreas due to the high fat content. • Onions and garlic can cause gastric irritation and anaemia if they are consumed in large quantities. • Grapes and raisins can cause acute kidney failure. • Christmas decorations and cooked bones, if eaten, can cause obstruction of the intestine and require surgery. ALSO READ: How to make a tasty holiday treat for your dog