 The holiday spirit filled the atmosphere during the Penryn Carols by Candlelight. Penryn chaplain Rev Terry Booysen said it was a very special day on the Penryn calendar as they finish the year with this traditional event. Once the sun finally set, candles were lit and an array of coloured laser beams and fairy lights set the scene for a magical celebration. This annual favourite was held for the first time at the Bill Carter Cricket Oval last Saturday. It was brought by Penryn families, friends and the greater community together to celebrate the school’s Christian ethos and the start of the festive season.   ALSO READ: Santa pays a visit to Penryn preschoolers With a magnificent view overlooking the twinkling lights of Mbombela, all those in attendance could not have wished for a better setting. “All were encouraged to picnic, enjoy a tie of fellowship and the varied musical line-up as the sun set over the Penryn campus. “The programme included an array of solo and choir performances from Penryn Prep and College, as well as other performers from the surrounding schools’ community,” said Booysen. Other memorable performances included those from the Artreach Combined Junior and Senior Choir, led by the talented Gugu Mahlalela. The Artreach choir, a development programme falling under Penreach Artreach, performed three heartfelt worship songs, including “Miracle Worker”, “Amazulu” and “Igama Lihle”. Members of the choir comprise of Fundinjobo and Mthombo high schools, as well as Nkokhokhweni Primary School. ALSO READ: Local Vodacom team stands in solidarity with survivors of gender-based violence   The event’s headline performers, a Pretoria-based worship team, performed a variety of isiZulu, English and Afrikaans worship songs, encouraging young and old to join in the musical celebration. Grant Williams, Penryn executive head, said he was thrilled to see families across the community come together to celebrate the festive season and he looks forward to the event growing in years to come.