 MBOMBELA – Irving, the owner of Shamroc Cattery and Kennels, was murdered in her home on a smallholding on Saturday morning. She was very well-known throughout the Lowveld as an avid animal lover with a kind and generous heart. She lived alone on a plot in Rietfontein, near Uitkyk, where she ran the kennels. At her time of death there were about
100 animals she was looking after on her property. According to Albert Gryvenstein of Bossies Community Justice, Irving was overpowered by four men while she was working outside at around 08:00 on Saturday. The men took her into her home, tied her up, assaulted her and killed her. According to police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, Irving’s gardener saw the men fleeing the scene and went to investigate. He found Irving and ran to the neighbours to get help, but she had succumbed to her wounds. According to the police, the men fled with Irving’s firearm and a cellphone, but it is unclear if anything else was taken. Friends, family and neighbours gathered outside Irving’s home on Saturday. The shock and grief was palpable as people stood around, talking in low tones and comforting one another. Sobs and tears broke out anew as the pathologists left the scene with her body. ALSO READ: 10 dead hippos discovered in Crocodile River No suspects have been arrested as of yet. A reward of up to R100 000 has been offered by friends and family, along with Bossies Community Justice, for any information leading to the arrest and conviction of the killers. Tributes and condolences have flooded in on social media, especially from repeat customers of Shamroc Cattery and Kennels. Nicholas Ing, a close friend, has assured that the kennels will stay open until early next year to honour her memory. “She made sure that every animal was well-looked after and we will continue to run the kennels the way she would have done,” he said. “We are in the process of finalising the finer details, but between friends and family we will make sure that every animal has somewhere to go. “Cathy was my first and dearest friend in the Lowveld,” he added. “We shared many common interests and it was an absolute blessing having her in my life. She will always have a special place in my heart and I will miss her infinitely.” Ing has also released a statement on behalf of Shamroc Cattery and Kennels. Read the full statement here. ALSO READ: Local Vodacom team stands in solidarity with survivors of gender-based violence The Ehlanzeni District Equestrian Club (EDEC) have also announced that donations can be made in lieu of annual membership fees to Cathy’s Horses. Please see the details below:  Local community watches have urged the public to get involved in community safety initiatives, such as neighbourhood watches. Irving’s family is in the process of arranging a memorial, but could not yet give details at the time of going to press. She is survived by two sisters and her mother. Irving’s family have decided to do a memorial service at Glenda’s (Irving’s sister) home:
45 High Street, White River
Date: Saturday December 14, 2019
Time: 11:00 Finger snacks and drinks will be provided. ALSO READ: Rhino DNA backlog after contract not renewed