 No ABS or airbags? These, in my opinion, being the minimum safety features all modern cars should offer as standard. Be that as it may, at the time, I said considering that 80 per cent of the South African market can only afford 20 per cent and even less of the cars on offer in SA, the Go may well offer an excellent opportunity to the many who crave mobility independence of taxis and public transport. Datsun took cognizance and today, the latest evolution of this little runabout offered the aforementioned, and a lot more. I just drove the new Automatic CVT derivative, and, well, the long and the short of it is, it is delightful and still relatively affordable. Exterior
The exterior is more mature than that of the previous generation. The rear and front end is edgy, modern and even a tad cocky with its sharp style lines and prominent grille. All of this is enhanced by its high ground clearance, adding additional energy to the design. And Datsun is saving you money, because the Go is already kitted with alloy wheels. I like it – its grown-up for the entry-level and student market and the Go represents the cheapest CVT fitted car on the market. ALSO READ: How to travel safe during the festive season Interior
Although not really suitable for the large in stature, the interior does not lack any of the modern amenities for the Google generation to crave. Ergonomics are good – layout is excellent especially, with the gear lever’s and center console’s position. Steering is height adjustable. The instrument cluster is large and clear, and the large screen right next to the steering allows for easy access to a range of features. This seven-inch touchscreen is equipped with voice recognition, Apple Car Play and Android Auto. The only gripe, really, is the position of the USB socket – really? Seats are comfy and supportive, but legroom in the rear – well, consider the size of the Go, and its bachelor-sized luggage space, and it would be reasonable to accept that it is nothing to write home about. Then again, students and probably elderly couples will not mind about this at all. ALSO READ: Stand out in the Isuzu X-Rider Black Performance
The CVT version offers 57kW and 104Nm. This may not sound like a lot, but it is perfect for a city runabout. I have never been a fan of CVT gearboxes simply because of its drone-like running-of-revs engine sound when you push it. Smooth it certainly is, and when you drive it like a responsible citizen, there is no or very little of this drone noise, so it is absolutely possible to live with the daily drive in a Go. The CVT is fitted with a Sports mode and although it ups the revs when you engage it on the side of the gear lever, one does not experience a surge of extra power. It does help, but I will not bargain on this alone to help me during overtaking. It would still be wise to ensure that you have enough space and distance available when looking to overtake. Cruising the highway is straightforward as long as you keep a steady pace and a light foot. The ideal speed, in my view, is about 110km/h. Steering is also light and direct – particularly useful during parking, but not necessarily that stable when a sudden and sharp avoidance of “that idiot” is required. The gearbox also offers an L mode. This is for heavy load situations and chooses a lower set ratio on the gearbox. The suspension is geared towards city driving. It absorbs speed bumps fairly well and is particularly comfortable on the open road. The Go is now also fitted with VDC (vehicle dynamic control) which monitors wheel speed, steering position and lateral acceleration. ABS with EBD and brake assist is standard, and so are dual air bags. Conclusion
If you modulate (such a beautiful word) the right foot (don’t floor it), the Go offers adequate performance in town and a 20+km/litre fuel index. So although it is tough being an entry-level hatch in a market crowded with many offerings, the Go now offers a much improved version of its first incarnation, and I have no doubt that this will reflect in sales figures. Pricing starts at R159 100 ALSO READ: Meet the Donkervoort