We’ve been dreaming about the December holidays for a few months, and now that they’re here, we’re not going to let anything ruin our down time! These smart tips mean you can have the best end-of-year break yet, without stressing about emergencies – big or small. Whether you’re packing everyone in the car and driving a few hours to the coast or you’re just quickly going to the mall, you should always let friends or family know where you’re going and when you expect to be back. 911 Response24 is a genius app that connects you to rapid, reliable emergency services when you need them most. It gives you the peace of mind of knowing that wherever you are in South Africa, whatever you’re doing, if you need armed or medical response, help is on the way fast. Click here to download 911 Response24 for Android, or click here to download 911 Response24 for iOS. If you’re decorating with lights on a tree and around your house, it’s important to check that everything’s in working order before they go up. The last thing you need over the holidays is for a fire to start in the living room! From insect bites to skinned knees and everything in-between, you’ll never regret having a well-equipped first aid kit with you. Also include some basic medicine in your kit – there’s nothing worse than having to deal with a fever or snotty nose when you’re far from home without the right treatment for the job. Even when you’re away, you shouldn’t forget about those basic security measures that are almost second nature when you’re at home. Lock doors, put away valuables and be aware of your surroundings. Anyone who’s ever felt the pain of a bad sunburn knows that it can really stop you from enjoying your holiday. But even worse, just one serious sunburn increases your risk of skin cancer. Don’t take chances with your health: lather on the sunscreen, wear protective clothing and stay out of direct sun between 10am and 3pm. South Africa is full of amazing people, and if we look out for each other, we’ll all be safer together. Whether you’re planning a staycation this festive season or an epic local holiday, keep an eye on the people around you and see what small things you can do to help them stay safe.