 MBOMBELA – December has arrived, and with it, the setting off of fireworks by residents celebrating the festive season. For our four-legged animal friends, the noise from fireworks is an unwelcome experience. According to Nelspruit SPCA vice chairman, Ludi Botha, this period is a busy one for the organisation. “Animals undergo fear, stress and anxiety, causing them to dart into busy roads and be hit by vehicles. Another concern for the SPCA is busy residents who leave home to go on holiday.  ALSO READ: A return to stage 4 load-shedding on Tuesday morning “We are requesting that all pets be left in the care of responsible people who will not let the animals stray,” he said. Botha added that people who keep strays are acting in contravention of municipal by-laws. “The SPCA is the only recognised municipal pound contracted to the municipality. The Nelspruit, White River and Barberton SPCAs are the only recognised pounds.”  ALSO READ: Reward issued for information on the murder of Catherine Irving “People should be cognisant that keeping any animal that does not belong to them, makes them and any institution which does so, guilty of theft.” Botha emphasised that the setting off of fireworks remains a major concern and pleaded with residents to do so in designated areas, in compliance with the municipal by-laws.  ALSO READ: SAHRC’s investigation into nightspots’ noise disturbances “As far as I am aware, the sports facilities in Barberton, Mbombela, White River and KaNyamazane are the designated areas to set off fireworks. “Every year during the December period the SPCA deals with animals injured. We are pleading with residents not to set off fireworks in residential areas. Last year, this was a big problem in Mbombela.” He said the SPCA do not enforce municipal by-laws, adding this was a municipal function.  ALSO READ: Suspended top rangers back at KNP The Mbombela Fire and Rescue Services chief, Petrus Matiyane said notices are sent out to residents on a regular basis in December to warn against setting off fireworks in residential areas. “The status quo remains that designated areas be used to set off fireworks. These include stadiums and sports grounds which we will identify. “Our by-laws have not been gazetted, but have been submitted for promulgation. Once this process is complete, we will be enforcing the municipal by-laws,” Matiyane said.