 SKUKUZA – Isaac Phaahla, the KNP spokesman, told Lowvelder that, “none of them were taxi drivers, but local people who should have known better. “We have been given the authority now to also issue fines to those breaking the law.” This follows after a petition calling for the banning of taxis in the park garnered more than 37 500 signatures in a week, after a Swiss tourist, Roland Koller, died after being involved in an accident a few weeks ago. The petition was started by Freddy Cook in response to the minibus taxi which collided with a giraffe, causing the accident. ALSO READ: Eyewitness accounts of the accident that killed a Swiss tourist in KNP According to Cook, “Many people have reported speeding taxis in the KNP. This is not an isolated incident. With the death of a Swiss tourist maybe the world will now take notice,” he wrote on change.org, a website dedicated to initiation of petitions. In an interview with eNCA on Saturday, Phaahla described the signatories as, “opportunistic, as we live in a very unequal society where we cannot make this park exclusive for those who are much more privileged.” ALSO READ: KNP tourist dies in Johannesburg hospital He confirmed to the newspaper this week that the petition has not been presented to SANParks. “The issue will be discussed by management, but we cannot go back to a sad state of affairs where people are excluded based on their mode of transport. Communities around the KNP usually utilise minibuses to visit the park and SANParks cannot suddenly exclude them.” He asked whether a petition requesting the ban of SUVs would be supported. “Should that be considered as well?” he asked. “We are continuously emphasising the precautionary measures which tourists must take, whether they are in minibuses or SUVs.” He added that increased patrols of accident hotspots will also take place. “The ultimate responsibility lies with drivers to behave responsibly,” Phaahla added. Lowvelder was unsuccessful in its attempts to reach Cook for comment.