 BARBERTON – Wednesday marked 212 days since a group of between 50 to 60 former Lily Mine workers set up camp
outside the mine. The contingent is led by a committee of former shop stewards, which include Ndumiso Mbandze, Harry Mazibuko, Master Mthethwa and Abednigo Magongo. While the court case between Vantage Goldfields SA and Acqormanzi SSC drags on, the miners want one only thing – to get their jobs and livelihoods back. Abednego Magongo, Harry Mazibuko, Ndumiso Mbandze and Master Mthethwa in the men’s quarters. ALSO READ: EMIS has a heart for children – help them fill their love boxes with gifts “We have set up camp here for the country to take note of our plight. Many lives are affected by the mine closure and we feel that government needs to intervene to get the mine up and running again,” said Mazibuko, the spokesman for the group. “While these private companies are battling it out, we as workers are feeling the heat. Our position is that the Department of Mineral Resources should have intervened as the regulator of this industry,” he said. Lucky Maphanga. ALSO READ: Women’s self-defence puts power in empowerment Life at the camp revolves around praying for the retrieval of their colleagues’ bodies and the hope that the ongoing court saga is resolved so that they can return to work. “Our biggest issue is that there does not seem to be any communication between the different administrations. The former Mpumalanga premier, David Mabuza, visited us and promised that the situation would receive redress. Luck Masuru, Sonnyboy Shongwe and John Sithole. ALSO READ: Brave ranger single-handedly apprehends gang of rhino poachers “Since he has left office, no one from local government has been here to see first-hand the impact of the mine closure.” The group survives on donations from nearby shops to ensure that everyone has regular meals. Mazibuko added that they approached the Department of Social Development, who has assisted with food relief. “Since 2016, the department has assisted us on three occasions with food hampers after we approached them. Nhlanhla Nkiwane, Sanele Simelane and Sibusiso Nkosi. ALSO READ: Keep our children safe this festive season, says ChildSafe “These were distributed to our former colleagues in Barberton, Matsulu and areas further afield.” During the visit, Lowvelder was struck by the disciplined approach the committee has taken to ensure that order is maintained. “We have a set routine here. Our day starts at 05:00 with a prayer session, information sharing and announcements and we have lunch at 12:00.” Elmon Mnisi. ALSO READ: Not much improvement in Mpumalanga’s water levels despite some rainfall Fiona Nyerenda, whose son, Solomon, was among the miners who perished in the 2016 mine collapse, supports the
committee’s protest. She helps with the cooking and her eyes filled with tears as she spoke about Solomon. “All I am praying for is that their bodies are recovered and we can give him a decent burial at last,” she said. Yvonne Mnisi’s father, Elmon, shared the sentiments. Thembisile Nkosi. ALSO READ: Serious money addressed on a funny note “God knows which way He will lead us. As a family, we have not had much rest since Yvonne’s passing. Our joy and
happiness is halved since one of our own is not here to laugh and cry with us. “We trust that God will not let it end this way. The mine closure affects a large number of families, but I believe that there will be water where there is only drought now,” he said. Jabulile Thabethe. ALSO READ: Illegal gun owners will be allowed to apply for pardoning in terms of firearm legislation Adding to their woes, according to Mazibuko, is the ever-increasing presence of illegal miners, who the group said
are systematically stripping the mine of expensive equipment. “We have reported this to the security company, but so far nothing has been done. As citizens of this country, we want
government to fast-track this issue so that we can return to work.” Rose Nkabi. ALSO READ: Municipality to continue with legal proceedings against Barberton Golf Club As South Africans gear up for the coming holiday season, Mazibuko vowed that the group would remain at the site. “A few of us are leaving to go home, but we will remain here. Our plea as workers is that we need government to step in so that our lives can be made better.”