 It’s only 361 days to Black Friday! The credit cards have been swiped, the mayhem has subsided and the debris is being swept away. It was one of the busiest Black Friday’s yet and hundreds of shoppers researched on Guzzle.co.za how to make as much of the amazing retail promotions. Guzzle.co.za racked up 6,116,908 impressions and 429,044 during black Friday week. But if you were not part of the Black Friday buzz do not fear, Guzzle.co.za is here with all of the greatest deals for Christmas and New Year. At this stage of 2019 your Christmas guest list is probably still growing:  your sister is coming over with her whole extended family, your cousin just phoned to invite himself and even the neighbor is dropping hints. You might have to make alterations on the house to fit everyone in. Whether you celebrate on Christmas Eve or on Christmas day, preparing the main festive meal can be a stressful undertaking. Apart from worrying about your temperamental oven that never seems to get hot enough, you have to make sure you know what everyone can and can’t eat.  And as if all this wasn’t enough you have to make sure everyone (even if they say they don’t want one) gets a gift. There is no need to burden yourself with unnecessary stress, the solution is only a click away. Guzzle.co.za is your one stop portal to all the festive deals. From pudding to pencils to pens, plan a shopping experience for you. Once the festive season (which clearly isn’t stressful enough) is over everything seems to melt into January faster than Grandad falling asleep on the remote control. Before the last gammon sandwich has been smothered in mustard it’s back to work and back to school. For most consumers there are 45 days between December and January paydays. Accordingly no matter how well you plan January is always financially tight and is always a wild rush for back to school supplies.  It’s the last day before school and you run to the store and grab pens and pencils and scissors and glue and paper and crayons and…you always forget something!  With that approach it will be Valentine’s day before your eldest has a protractor. Breath in and breath out. Avoid the bustle and get on your back to school hustle with few clicks on Guzzle.co.za.       