 Roadblocks exist to ensure the safety and wellbeing of everyone on the roads, so they may be set up with the purpose of identifying drunk drivers, checking the validity of car and driver’s licenses or to search passing cars for illegal goods. But what about outstanding traffic fines?  The relationship between outstanding fines and roadblocks is considered somewhat complicated. If you have failed to pay a traffic fine by its due date and have failed to appear in court for a criminal summons, a warrant may be issued for your arrest. This arrest may take place at any time that you come across an officer in possession of that warrant. ALSO READ: Things to not ask Santa for this Christmas Here’s where it gets tricky. Police at roadblocks would not ordinarily be in possession of these warrants, however, they may use license plate or ID number recognition technology to check whether you have outstanding fines. While the police cannot demand payment for outstanding traffic fines on the spot, there have been instances in which motorists were arrested because the officers were able to identify that a warrant was out for the driver’s arrest. In many cases, drivers do not even realise that there is a warrant out for their arrest before it is too late. While motorists have a number of rights they may exercise in this instance, the best advice is to ensure that this type of stressful situation is avoided altogether.  While paying traffic fines may seem like your least important expense, it is an absolute necessity. Not only do you risk arrest, but municipalities will no longer renew license discs held by motorists with outstanding fines, which may lead to further fines for expired licenses, as well as insurance complications. ALSO READ: Vodacom services in Mbombela restored Don’t get caught off-guard this festive season. Fines SA makes it easy for all South Africans to settle their traffic fines conveniently, and with a discount of up to 20%! Formerly known as Mekaish Traffic Fine Management, Fine SA offers a central database for checking outstanding fines. It has been trusted by over one million South Africans for more than 25 years and is the only business of its kind in SA. Fines SA is the most comprehensive way to check, save and pay traffic fines to over 250 municipalities nationwide, with the added incentive of getting a discount of up to 20%. How does it work? Simply visit www.finesSA.co.za and register your ID number and contact information by completing the form on the home page. You will receive a comprehensive quote with your outstanding fines within 24-48 hours of registering, along with details of the discounts negotiated for you by Fines SA. Alternatively, send your ID number, name, cellphone number and email address to info@finesSA.co.za. 