Are you tired of eating the same boring food every Christmas? We think it’s time to spice up your selection and elevate your palate with these two recipes. 1. Honey glazed carrots Vegetables don’t have to be bland. Make honey glazed carrots for your Christmas lunch and/or dinner by glazing carrots in honey and then roasting them in the oven for approximately 40 minutes. The prep time for this dish is 10 minutes and the ingredients are simple and easy to work with. All you need is: ● Carrots
● 2 tbsp. honey
● ¼ cup of butter
● ½ tsp. dried rosemary
● ½ tsp. garlic powder
● Salt
● Thyme Instructions: ● Preheat the oven to 200ºC and melt the butter with low heat in a saucepan.
● Add the rosemary, garlic powder, honey as well as salt and pepper.
● Glaze the mixture on the carrots after placing them on a roasting pan.
● After 40 minutes, the carrots should be glazed and ready for consumption.
● Garnish with thyme (this is optional).  2. Roasted chicken, sweet potatoes and broccoli Although, the festive season is all about indulging in sweet favourites, a well- rounded nutritious meal can be your go-to while keeping it hearty. This meal can be prepared in one pan, which is easier if you are looking to minimise on dishes that may need to be washed. The flavour-filled dish is prepared within 45 minutes and is good enough if you want to sneak in some vegetables for the little ones while it is a flavoursome and simple meal. What do you need? ● 4 bone-in chicken thighs (skin-on, or 6 legs, or a combo of both)
● 2 medium sweet potatoes (cut into 1-inch chunks)
● 2 tablespoons canola (or grapeseed oil)
● Salt and pepper
● 1 tablespoon soy sauce
● 1 tablespoon lemon juice
● 1 tablespoon honey
● 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper
● 1 large head of broccoli Instructions: ● Add a large sheet pan to the oven and preheat to 218 degrees Celsius.
● Drizzle the chicken and sweet potatoes with 2/3 of the oil and brush to coat evenly. Season well with salt and pepper.
● Remove the hot pan from the oven. Add the chicken, skin-side down, and add sweet potatoes scattered around the chicken. Return the pan to the oven and roast for 20 minutes.
● Meanwhile, make the sauce—in a small bowl, add the soy sauce, lemon juice, honey, and cayenne pepper and then whisk together.
● Cut the head of broccoli into florets. Peel the stalk and cut it into 1/2-inch slices. Drizzle the broccoli with the remaining oil and rub to coat evenly. Season with salt and pepper.
● Remove the pan from the oven and brush the chicken and potatoes with the sauce. Flip the chicken and potatoes and brush the other side. Add the broccoli scattered around in a single layer. Brush with the remaining sauce and return to the oven.
● Roast for about 15 more minutes, or until the chicken registers 74 degrees Celcius in the thickest parts and the vegetables are tender. Enjoy!