 BARBERTON – Grade 11 learners from Barberton Secondary School with aspirations of pursuing careers in the
medical profession undertook a tour of Barberton Hospital on Friday. The school principal, Mthobisi Sithole, said the programme was introduced to give the learners a first-hand feel of the behind-the-scenes activities in which medical professionals are engaged. “All these grade 11 learners have expressed an interest in following careers in this field after completing their schooling next year. They are all science students who are keen on returning to serve their community once they have obtained their qualifications,” he said. Mthobisi Sithole, Sikhanyiso Matsebula, Nomkhululeko Ntekati, Natacia Mkhawanazi, Charlotte Msibi, Charles Methula, Senele Zitha, Angel Mathonjwa and Joseph Greaver. ALSO READ: Sithole added that the outing was an orientation which would give them a glimpse of the dedication and commitment it took to serve in the profession. “They were taken through the different wards in the hospital and exposed to the kind of work involved in tending to patients. We wanted them to see how business studies, science and language are key factors to interacting with people from different backgrounds. Essentially, as a doctor, you are required to run a practice. Grasping this early on is vital if you are aiming to be successful.” The learners were clad in white lab coats and enjoyed spending time in the environment. Angel Mathenjwa, Senele Zitha, Charlotte Msibi, Natacia Mkhwanazi, Nomkululeko Ntekati and Sikhanyiso Matsebula. ALSO READ: “This gave us the chance to learn and see how a hospital operates from different perspectives. We learned who is
assigned to perform which duties,” they said. Pius Mbanza, the hospital’s head of human resources development, elaborated on the importance of the programme and the schedule the learners followed. “Firstly, they underwent a short occupational health and safety course and then proceeded through the different wards where they saw things from the perspective of various medical health professionals who dedicate their time to delivering services to the community.” Following the tour, the learners expressed their determination to keep their noses in their books so that they could attain the required passes to make their mark on the medical health profession. “We are in grade 11 this year and this tour has reinforced just how important it is to study hard to get accepted to university. Coming back to help and make a difference is what we are all aiming for. “