 In addition – and perhaps more importantly – the engine management has been optimised, giving the engine in the RS greatly improved torque throughout the rev range. Result: even faster acceleration! Improving the aerodynamics of a car with four open wheels is by definition ‘challenging’. Yet this challenge was one of the most important objectives during the design process of the D8 GTO-RS. This new model marks the first time Donkervoort has succeeded in creating substantial down force. This is directly reflected in the distinctive and eye-catching styling of the GTO-RS. The new nose design, the beautifully streamlined bodywork with the completely closed carbon fibre bottom plate with side skirts, the sleekly styled and easily removable upper doors and the various small spoilers and vanes contribute to a down force of no less than 50 kg on the front axle and 50 kg on the rear axle. Compared to the D8 GTO the air resistance has been reduced by a whopping 20 per cent. The significant aerodynamic improvements result not only in greater stability of the car at high speeds but also increased top speed.  ALSO READ: Mitsubishi’s eK X is RJC Car of the Year The Donkervoort D8 GTO-RS is a Donkervoort in its purest form. For the real track day devotee the RS offers several more extra features that not only boost the lap times but the driving pleasure as well. These include the RS’s brand new suspension system and, available as an option for the speed demon, a refined, fully adjustable racing ABS and traction-control system as well as an automatic double-clutching feature. Even more aesthetically refined and sophisticated yet more functional than ever is the new interior of the D8 GTO-RS. The eye is immediately drawn to the new visible carbon fibre bottom structure, consisting of the floor plate and tunnel. With this design element the RS interior reflects the car’s no-nonsense, high-tech character. Additional functionalities have also been added inside, some of which can be found on the steering wheel.  The Donkervoort D8 GTO-RS was announced as a limited edition of 40 units in early 2016. Following the announcement a large number of the available cars were sold in no time – a huge compliment. Many of these buyers expressed interested in ‘special editions’ of this already exceptional series. Donkervoort – which naturally wants to meet every customer’s individual wishes – therefore decided to expand the RS series, ahead of schedule, with a Bare Naked Carbon Edition and a Race Edition. ALSO READ: Fiat 600 Multipla stars in exhibition The Donkervoort D8 GTO-RS Bare Naked Carbon Edition was limited to just 15 cars. All the carbon fibre elements of these special edition models was left exposed so the unique, recognisable fibre structure of the material remains fully visible. Just ten of the D8 GTO-RS Race Edition was built. This RS was optimised for track driving, with features that include a (non-street-legal) sequential gearbox and the aforementioned lap time-enhancing track day features.  The Donkervoort D8 GTO-RS is beastly, fast and ultra-lightweight. A record breaker for the track, yet equally in its element on the road as you enjoy a comfortable, relaxed ride home along your favourite scenic route accompanied by a beautiful sunset at the end of another perfect day. The first Donkervoort D8 GTO-RS was delivered at the end of 2016. Prices started €151,173 excl. taxes. Source: Netcarshow.com ALSO READ: KIA Motors include service plan in evergreen KIA Picanto range