 DULLSTROOM –  Kruger has been in a 500-litre wine barrel on a pole 23 metres above the ground since November 14. He is attempting to break his own Guinness World Record of staying more than 67 days in the barrel. “Since I started this event, I have to admit the last two days have been the most difficult,” he told Lowvelder last week. “The constant rain for days has forced me to stay indoors day and night, so no exercise or stretching, plus the barrel has been leaking here and there and the strong wind blew the rain right in under my little roof, but the sun will shine again. “I have been trying to keep this event as light-hearted as possible, and to come up with fun things to do during my long stay up here, but the actual reason for me doing this world record for a second time is quite serious.” Finding fun things to do in the barrel is quite simple. With delicious food and some alterations inside the barrel, life is made easier and more convenient. Vernon even installed a barbecue on his barrel and enjoyed a lekker braai in the air. ALSO READ: Challenge accepted: More than two months in pole mounted wine barrel Local stores have been making sure that he is eating properly and that he is dressed well for all weather conditions.
On the event’s Facebook page is a drone video featuring Vernon attempting to sleep in the tiny barrel; this certainly does not look comfortable. “This challenge is not for glory or to be a champion, but this time I hope for it to be a means to an end. “My father always said that charity starts at home. I never quite realised what that meant until now. My charity does start at home this time, but doesn’t end there; it includes many other children who are going through a hard time in life. “My own two young kids are my motivation for enduring any physical discomfort or pain I may encounter while undergoing this world record attempt. It can’t compare with the trauma and heartache the two of them had to endure, and still are enduring since March. I miss them terribly!” Visit the Facebook page “Up on the pole in Dullstroom” for more  updates. Sleeping in the barrel does not look comfortable at all, but Vernon says he manages four hours at a time. ALSO READ: Dullstroom is anything but dull!