 Located at Riverside Mall, the Mafunyane Water Park features more than seven rip-roaring water attractions, super slides, sparkling pools and fun-filled activities for children and adults of all ages. With names such as “Cheetah’s Challenge”, “Boomslang Bungee” and “Leaping Leopard” the slides aim to thrill and challenge you. For those looking for something a little more chill than thrill, you can cool down or float about in the refreshing water of their big pool, visit the kiddies water activity play area or relax on the lawn and read a book. The Dullstroom Bird of Prey and Rehabilitation Centre was established in 1997 and has been located at its present site since November 2004. The centre’s original aim was as an educational centre, teaching members of the public about raptors and promoting an awareness of the raptor species and their plight as a growing endangered species. The need for care of injured and orphaned birds of prey prescribed the evolving of the rehabilitation centre as well. One of the main reasons to visit Mbombela, the Lowveld National Botanical Garden lies just outside of town, a beautiful 159 hectare space dominated by rugged, rocky river scenery, and home to over 600 naturally occurring plant species, and a further 2 000 that have been introduced to the garden. ALSO READ: SA personalities who passed away in 2019 Aside from this, the Lowveld Botanical Garden is alive with trees and creates a wonderful haven for visitors. Around 650 tree species indigenous to South Africa dominate the garden, interspersed with ancient cycads and a variety of shrubs. The garden is dominated by a vegetation type known as Sour Lowveld Bushveld that is a link between the true Lowveld and the escarpment, due mainly to the garden’s altitude. Merry Pebbles Resort is situated on the banks of the Sabie River, one kilometre from Sabie. It offers AA Highly Recommended self-catering accommodation, as well as three-star caravan and camping sites. Heated pools, water slides, a play park, tennis, hiking, trout fishing, and mountain biking make this resort an ideal holiday option for the family. Sites such as the Kruger National Park, Sudwala Caves, Blyde River Canyon, and God’s Window are all within easy reach. Services such as an ATM, Wi-Fi, gas refills, ice sales, fire wood sales, a restaurant, liquor store, and mini market are available on site. Please kindly note that no motorcycles or quad bikes are permitted on the premises. There are heated and cold water pools with water slides, mini golf, a play park, trampolines, giant outdoor chess, a jungle gym and an entertainment hall. ALSO READ: Don’t get caught by fraudsters this festive season