 Helping thousands of survivors of rape and domestic abuse is one of  the main objectives of GRIP. A team of community care workers deployed at police stations, hospitals and courts render much-needed support to victims, walk the journey with the survivors through the police stations, hospitals, home visits and court to ensure that they are in a safe place. This organisation relies entirely on donated funds and fundraising initiatives. Licky Thusi, GRIP CEO, said community care workers have overcome the challenges faced by the organisation. ALSO READ: GRIP is in need of your donation Lowvelder previously reported how their funds were allegedly mismanaged by some former members of the management team.The allegations are under investigation, and  those implicated have denied  any wrongdoing. The new management team need assistance from the public to enable them to continue providing their services.   Ntombifuthi Zulu, a community care worker, who has been volunteering at GRIP since 2007, said being a care worker does not end at the police station. ALSO READ: GRIP moves into new offices “When I get home I still play the role in my community. We educate the community about the process that is taken after a rape case is opened. We put the puzzles together for them, so that they can understand that we believe in confidentiality. We explain to them that if they see the process taking longer than expected, sometimes it is because investigations are underway, such DNA tests,” she said. Zulu said she is passion-driven and she loves helping others. Promise Mabudza, a social worker supervisor based at Rob Ferreira Hospital’s care room, said all the community care workers are results-orientated. ALSO READ: Locals inspired to help GRIP “We work with different people on a daily basis and we do not work alone,” she said. Mabudza said that there are steps that are followed when assisting the victims, and they work with various people as a team to help. “When a victim arrives at the hospital we start with debriefing and counselling. They then get attended to by doctors or nurses in the hospital, and then the police take over. “Before they go home we give them clean clothes, if their clothes are no longer in a good condition, and a care pack. The police then take them home to make sure that they are safe.” ALSO READ: Thousands pilfered from GRIP After getting a court date the GRIP care workers who work from the court make contact with them to assist and support them before their court appearance. On the day of the court appearance the care workers attend the court sitting for support. “We also visit them in their homes after the court appearance,” Mabudza explained. To contact GRIP, you can call 013-752-4404 or the emergency number on 083-310-1321. They are now located in Simunye Building, 49 Anderson Street, opposite Paint Centre.