 BARBERTON – The site where a group of about 50 former Lily Mine employees are camped out was attacked in the early hours of Wednesday. Lowvelder previously reported how the group has been camping out at the site in a demand for the mine to be reopened. Harry Mazibuko, the group’s spokesman, said they were woken at 01:00 when the living quarters in the camp were attacked. Three attackers poured petrol on the tents and set them alight. The arsonists threatened to shoot anyone
attempting to flee the burning tents.  ALSO READ: What to look for when choosing an educational playschool “In our rush to salvage our clothing and get dressed, we asked what was going on. The attackers warned that shots would be fired at anyone trying to escape.” The miners managed to douse the flames and Mazibuko reported that no-one sustained any injuries. “After the suspects fled in the direction of Lily Mine, we contacted the Low’s Creek police, who arrived at the site at about 07:53. We were told to report the matter to the station commander, who would only be available at 16:00 on the same day.”  ALSO READ: Decision to move cases from Skukuza was illegal, says judge Mazibuko bemoaned what he saw as the lack of support from the police. The group demanded patrols in the area to deter future attacks. “We will not be moved. We will remain here until the mine is reopened and we demand that government and the Department of Mineral Resources step in before any lives are lost. It has been three years and no action has been taken to ensure that the miners can return to work.”  ALSO READ: Two men arrested for illegal possession of elephant tusks and firearms Operations at Lily and Barbrook mines stopped in 2016 after a shaft at Lily had collapsed. The group places the blame for the attack on the presence of illegal miners in the area. “We suspect that this was an attempt to scare us into giving up the fight for our jobs. The Low’s Creek police spokesman, Const Fikile Lubisi, confirmed the incident. “A case has been lodged with the Low’s Creek Police Station. The motive for the attack is unknown and the case is still under investigation.” Lubisi could not confirm any plans to increase police visibility at the site.