All About Ruby Rabbits Ruby Rabbits’ ethos and values are based on the grace of God. A little one’s first introduction to an educational environment can be a difficult and emotional experience for both parent and child. Knowing that your child is secure, happy and especially cared for is crucial for every parent’s peace of mind. At Ruby Rabbits you can be sure of a warm and nurturing environment combined with exceptional early childhood development professionals. They aim to instil a love of life, people and learning through individual attention.  Your children’s well-being, safety, and security are the top priorities at Ruby Rabbits. CCTV cameras are installed in all indoor and outdoor areas and Hi-Tech Security renders armed response services as well as 24-hour medical emergency services and ambulance. All the teachers at Ruby Rabbits are certified level 1 first aiders. Children learn through playing and interaction. At Ruby Rabbits, the key to learning is through play and doing. Their daily programme provides for ample free play as well as teacher-initiated play. While exploring and experimenting with large varieties of textures, smells, tastes, temperatures, colours, shapes, sounds, movements and first-hand experiences, children are led on a sensory adventure, discovering the properties of things through all their senses. At Ruby Rabbits, messy play is much more than just getting dirty! It can excite even the youngest child’s imagination and promote a sense of great achievement, self-expression, and fun. Even their creative art activities are “process-based” (free art) as children learn through open-ended activities.  It allows them the chance to explore the world around them, ask questions, and see how things work. It gives them room to be themselves, makes their own decisions, and explore their creativity and imagination. There are only 3 classes limited to 16 tots each.  They pride themselves on quality care and individual attention. Ruby Rabbits’ goal is to cultivate independence and self-confidence from a young age through varied fun-filled experiences, as the children are encouraged to explore and learn at their own pace. Never a dull moment At this proactive and innovative little playschool there literally never is a dull moment. Educational field trips, in-house expeditions, and fun activities like puppet shows, baker’s days, show and tell, face painting, dress-ups and many more are in full supply.  Teachers partner with parents “We are blessed with a very special playschool community. Our parents are our partners. Together, we are laying our children’s foundation.”, says co-owner and principal Adri Ferreira. They have one-on-one debriefings with each parent daily, during which their little one’s day is discussed. Open and honest communication between home and playschool is in the best interest of the child.      