“The Isuzu X-Rider Black is my favourite vehicle on our production line,” said Natasha Schultz, an Isuzu Motors South Africa assembly line operator who fits wiring harnesses on the D-Max production line. “I can see myself driving this black beauty, it stands out on the line. I am happy to see it back in our product portfolio and I know our customers will be happy to see it in our showrooms!” Available only as a 4×2 double cab, the X-Rider Black is aimed squarely at the leisure market. “It’s bold, stylish and in your face. The X-Rider Black is for people who want to stand out in the urban jungle. It brings all the familiar Isuzu attributes of rugged reliability but will not look out of place parked in an upmarket urban setting,” said Dominic Rimmer, IMSA executive technical services. The X-Rider Black offers added value with an extensive list of standard features and accessories. ALSO READ: Meet the Donkervoort The package includes a bold black front bumper guard, projector headlamps with integrated LED daytime running lights, as well as front fog lamps. Eye-catching 18-inch black alloy wheels with red Isuzu badges further enhance the dynamic stance of this model.  The tyres are 255/60R18 All Terrain Tyres from General Tyre. The black theme continues with matt black roof rails, black side steps and a black sports bar. The X-Rider Black also comes with a factory fitted tonneau cover and a 2.1 tonne towbar. The D-MAX cabin gets the X-Rider treatment with standard black leather seats featuring red stitching on the bolsters and the “X-Rider” logo embroidered on the headrest. Red stitching is also used for the leather-trimmed steering wheel which has a red Isuzu badge. ALSO READ: Mitsubishi’s eK X is RJC Car of the Year Piano black trim on the vents, radio and front console give the cabin a modern and sophisticated touch, with the same treatment used on the door trim inserts that incorporate a red “X” in keeping with the theme. An eight-inch AX2 touchscreen infotainment system with Bluetooth for audio streaming and hands-free calling is available as standard. Drive is taken care of by Isuzu’s popular 2.5 litre, 4-cylinder, 16 valve high pressure turbo charged diesel engine matted with a five-speed manual gear box. Power remains unchanged at 100kW and 320Nm. Fuel consumption is 7,7 litres/100km on the combined cycle, with 203g/km of CO2 emissions.  The X-Rider Black has a high level of active and passive safety features, which include Electronic Brake-Force Distribution, Brake-Assist System, Electronic Stability Control with Traction Control, Anti-Lock Braking System, driver and passenger airbags, and Side-Impact Protection Bars. The Isuzu bakkie range comes standard with Isuzu Complete Care, comprising a five-year/120 000km bumper-to-bumper warranty and Isuzu Roadside Assistance, a five-year/unlimited km anti-corrosion warranty and a five-year/90 000km service plan. Service intervals are every 15 000km/12 months. Extended cover can be purchased for roadside assistance, service plans and maintenance plans. Price: R462 000 including VAT. ALSO READ: Fiat 600 Multipla stars in exhibition