 A tragic drowning accident made Emily Khumalo realise just how important a life skill the ability to swim is. The 38-year-old said, “A member of the newly formed running club, Bella’s Athletics Club, went on a hiking trip with
his girlfriend recently and the two decided to take a swim. “Because they did not have any swimming lessons, they died tragically. As a keen swimmer, I felt responsible. I thought, ‘If I had provided information or training, this tragic incident would not have occurred’.” Sean Nkundlane and Shelly Khoza. ALSO READ: Petrol price set to decrease in January 2020 initiative was sponsored by Swimming South Africa and was a fun-filled way in which to grasp this essential life skill. According to Khumalo, many adults do not know how to swim. Charles Nkosi, Emily Khumalo and Sly Potogane. ALSO READ: Know the rules when viewing pachyderms information, I will have saved one life. “As part of my portfolio at Ehlanzeni, Saturday focused on safety in the water with the guidance of Learn 2 Swim coaches.” She emphasised that it was important that the novices were taught the basics in a language in which they are comfortable. Lindy Silinda and Dikeledi Moriri. ALSO READ: Private cabaret showing a delight to the ears “I hope that through this initiative I will be giving back to people who gave me this skill.” She continued, “The drowning victims were fit, healthy adults who succumbed because they were not taught the
basics”. Mlenha Shongwe and Shelly Khoza. ALSO READ: Keep your kids busy this holiday On Saturday morning accredited Learn 2 Swim coach Harold Mdaka got the learners’ feet wet. He covered a range of topics, from safety to the causes of drowning, and the appropriate swimwear, before coaxing the adults class into the cool water and getting the lessons off to a good start. Khumalo envisions that the classes will grow even bigger next year and cautioned against panicking when in the water during the holiday period. “Keeping calm and observing safety guidelines at any swimming pool goes a long way towards ensuring that people avoid drowning this December,” she said.