 MBOMBELA – It was a special moment for some 100 underprivileged children when they received their “love boxes” on Saturday. Lowveld media assisted with organising and the logistics on the day as well as a media campaign assisting with publicity and much-needed funds to help fill the boxes. The public helped by making financial contributions and filling the boxes with gifts.  The EMIS “elves” further filled the boxes with small presents. The children’s faces lit up as they opened their special parcels during the handover and party at Mbombela Stadium. It was a fun-filled day with a meal, a jumping castle and having their faces painted. Pumaki, the Pumas mascot, joined in the fun with the children.
The little ones were also surprised by a visit from Santa Claus, who received a “reindeer” ride into the stadium from local Harley-Davidson riders from Big Five HOG Chapter and Steelwings Lowveld.   WATCH: The EMIS elves Christmas party for Child Welfare at Mbombela Stadium.Thank you Big Five HOG chapter and Steelwings Lowveld for giving Santa a lift to the party. Posted by Laevelder / Lowvelder on Saturday, 14 December 2019 Jaap Vorster, co-owner of the family business EMIS, said they wanted to give back something to the community and spread a little happiness. “We contacted some of our clients and some other people, we got donations then bought presents for the kids. We invited a lot of kids from Child Welfare and today we have an exciting Christmas party with Father Christmas,” he explained.  ALSO READ: EMIS has a heart for children Vorster wished the kids a wonderful Christmas. “I wish them nothing but the best and I hope their circumstances change soon,” he said. Nomfundo Myeza, the office manager at Child Welfare SA Nelspruit, said they appreciated what EMIS has done for the children.
“Over the years we would go from one company to another then they would take maybe five or 10 kids. We then end up with a lot of admin work to do and this year EMIS took all the children. “Every child has a gift coming from the organisation through EMIS. They went the extra mile with what they are doing, they did all the work and wrapping of gifts.” EMIS also partnered with PEP Stores and Crazy Stores which collected financial contributions from the public. A Special thank you to the following companies who donated to the campaign: 