 HAZYVIEW – Three young lives were claimed in two separate drowning incidents in Hazyview and
Acornhoek last week. According to Capt Pottie Potgieter of the SAPS’ diving unit, the first drowning occurred along the Sand
River on Wednesday and resulted in the death of an eight-year-old boy and a seven-year-old girl. “According to reports, the pair were part of a group of five children who were playing along the banks of the Sand River. The group reached a point along the riverbank which had been dug up, and slipped and fell into the river.”  ALSO READ: Mpumalanga water levels drop again after last week’s slight improvement Potgieter added that their friends tried saving the duo by stretching out a reed for them to hold onto, in the hope that they would be able to rescue them. “The incident occurred at about 15:30. Their rescue efforts were in vain, as both drowned. Their bodies were recovered by the diving unit at about 18:00.” The provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, confirmed the incident and added that a twelve-year-old boy also drowned on the same day in a separate incident.  ALSO READ: What to look for when choosing an educational playschool Hlathi could not confirm in which area or under what circumstances the second drowning occurred at the time of going to press. Potgieter issued a stern warning to parents and urged them to be aware of their children’s whereabouts at all times.  ALSO READ: Vigilance and awareness will scare off ATM scammers this festive season “We are experiencing heatwaves in the province and children are naturally looking for ways to stave off the heat. Parents need to take greater care of their children and should not let them near rivers or dams unsupervised. “Children should only swim in designated areas under the strictest supervision, and remember to be aware of crocodiles.” This warning was echoed by Hlathi, who added that parents should be vigilant at all times, especially during the December period, when family gatherings were held at dams, rivers and streams.