 The Hilux nameplate has obtained legendary status globally, forged by adventures, expeditions, quests and even over-ambitious television shows. The humble bakkie in 4×4 guise has reached all corners of the globe and gained a cult following in the process. In South Africa the story is no different. First launched in 1969, Hilux has firmly rooted itself in the SA motoring landscape and become the best-selling bakkie.  As a tribute to the success and rich heritage of Hilux, Toyota South Africa first created a bespoke limited-edition model – aptly named Legend 35 – in 2004. ALSO READ: 4×4 club follows the Ossewa trail This was followed by the Legend 40, built on the global IMV platform, and Legend 45 in 2009 and 2014 respectively. The Legend 45 model was extremely well received by the market and remains a standout in the Hilux lineage. With it being 2019, the time for a new Legend has arrived – to celebrate 50 years of local Hiluxes. Some exterior elements have been improved upon. This includes, but is not limited to, a revised front upper and lower grille which has received the full black-out treatment (in gloss finish), with matching stylised fog-lamp surrounds. The side profile is enhanced by black side protective mouldings (X/C and D/C), a customised rear styling bar with matching Legend 50 badging and a textured, heavy-duty tonneau cover for added rugged appeal. The instrument cluster features stylish white-faced dials with orange needles and a cog-shaped motif. A 4,2″ TFT multi-information display with steering wheel control relays a variety of information to the driver (including audio, compass, navigation prompts, trip info and fuel consumption). The infotainment system has also been upgraded, featuring an enlarged 8″ (20,3cm) display (now flush mounted and integrated into the dashboard) with additional rotary dials for volume and tune functions. ALSO READ: Eurol renews partnership with Toyota Gazoo All Legend 50 models are based on the Raider specification grade and therefore feature a comprehensive specification list. Smart entry (keyless) and push-start ignition functionality now join the specification inventory on Xtra Cab and Double Cab Legend 50 models. All Legend models come with a full suite of active and passive safety features – including driver, passenger, knee and curtain airbags (body-type dependent). ABS, VSC, EBD, brake assist and hill-assist control round off the electronic safety aids. All Hilux models come with a 3-year/100 000 km warranty. A nine-services/90 000 km service plan is standard on all models. Customers can also purchase extended service plans via their Toyota dealer. Pricing starts at R490 800. ALSO READ: Connect for a more mobile Toyota/Lexus