 “Visitor management is a vital part of ensuring the best possible experience for all visitors to the Kruger National Park (KNP) over the coming festive season starting on Friday, December 13 until Tuesday, January 14, 2020,” confirmed Ike Phaahla, GM of communications at KNP.  Phaahla urged visitors to make pre-bookings for their visits prior to their arrival. ”There are three time slots that day visitors can choose from.” These are: Time slot 1: 05:30 to 07:30
Time slot 2: 07:30 to 09:30
Time slot 3: 09:30 onwards “For busy periods such as the school holidays and festive season, we aim to better manage the volumes that we expect, as well as our visitors’ expectations. The three different time slots are aimed at improving the spread of vehicles and, as far as possible prevent unnecessary waiting periods at gates.” According to SANParks, the quota system for day visitors is a management tool to prevent overcrowding the roads and facilities. This is applied throughout the year although the park mostly reach carrying capacity during long weekends and school holidays, resulting in visitors being turned away. ALSO READ: SANParks strike successfully averted Visitors will be able to book up to 80% of the daily quota per gate via SANParks Reservations offices. Phaahla warned that pre-booked day visitors will get preference over non-booked day visitors at the gate.  “But they must ensure that they arrive within their booked time slots. Arriving outside the booked time slot, will be regarded as non-booked and therefore will not receive preference and could be turned away.” These bookings can be changed as well through SANParks Reservations offices if need be. Phaala also reminded visitors to read the permit received at the gates as all the rules and regulations of the park are clearly stipulated on these documents.  “Day visitors may not bring liquor as a result of the alcohol ban in public areas of the park. Further, visitors must please also refrain from committing other infringements such as littering, feeding of animals, speeding and alighting from vehicles in places where this is prohibited.” Visitor Management vehicles will also be on patrol; providing information to guests, visibility on the roads and law enforcement. Visitors can report any rules and regulations infringement witnessed to the Emergency Call Centre numbers: 013-735-4064/013-735-0197/076-801-9679. It is however important that the following information is provided: Vehicle type and colour
Vehicle registration
Date and Time of Incident
SATSA sticker showing vehicle number (for Open Safari Vehicles)
Details of Incident
Photographic evidence
Location of Incident ALSO READ: Poachers take rhino battle from bush to courtroom “Tourism monitors will be on standby to attend to areas such as swimming pools; however we would like to also take this opportunity to warn the parents not to allow children to swim without elderly supervision at the pools in the Park to avoid drowning,” concluded Phaahla.  Visitors should also take note of the following important information: Day Visitor pre-bookings are subject to a non-refundable booking fee of R46 per adult and R23 per child.
Day Visitors who have pre-booked will still be required to pay Conservation Fees or use a valid Wild Card to enter the Park. The Conservation Fee for SA residents as well as Zimbabwe and Mocambique nationals (passport required to prove this) is R100 per adult and R50 per child (between ages 2 – 11). For nationals of Eswatini (previously Swaziland) and other SADC countries, the conservation fees are R200 per adult and R100 per child. For all other guests, the standard conservation fees of R400 for adults and R200 for children applies. ALSO READ: KNP rejoices after good rainfall Guests planning to use Wild Cards are requested to ensure the membership is valid before arrival and this can best be done online at www.sanparks.org/wild
The number and profile of persons (adults and children) on the reservation and actual persons arriving should correspond. All guests (drivers and passengers) will be required to identify themselves upon admission (by producing a South African driver’s license, identity document or passport); please ensure you are in possession of one of these documents and have them ready. Gate Quotas will be strictly applied and guests without pre-bookings could be denied entry.
Guests are encouraged to continuously provide feedback on their experience to customer.care@sanparks.org