 MBOMBELA – Lowvelder had during the past year received numerous complaints about surgeons not being available under life-threatening circumstances and patients that had to be medevacked to other hospitals. Robyn Baard, the spokesman for Mediclinic Nelspruit, told the newspaper that she is aware of a communication sent out a few days ago informing the public that between certain dates there would be no coverage by certain specialists. ALSO READ: Mediclinic Nelspruit helps community take control of their health She explained that Mediclinic Nelspruit is affected by a nationwide lack of specialist cover, especially during the year-end festive period. “We endeavour to always have cover in the more common specialities such as general surgery, orthopaedic surgery, paediatrics, gynaecology and physicians. This, unfortunately, is not possible in the more specialised disciplines, such as cardiology and neurosurgery,” she said. “We have had full cover in most of the common specialities over the festive period, with only general surgery lacking at times.” Baard elaborated that in the past they were able to secure a visiting general surgeon to assist with cover, but it proved to be impossible this year. In order to assist patients requiring urgent specialised attention, she explained that on the days that they do not have cover in general surgery, the emergency medical services are requested to transfer patients to alternative facilities. ALSO READ: Mediclinic believes in their nurses She also discredited the common misconception that Mediclinic Nelspruit is a level one major trauma referral centre. “Such units must have 24-hour availability of all major specialities and there are very few of these centres in the country. Due to our highly specialised emergency centre, we are able to provide a complete trauma care service, where a patient is stabilised and transferred out to the nearest appropriate facility,” she said. “This is a challenge that we manage as best we can, as doctors may not be employed in private healthcare and operate independently in private practice. Most specialist disciplines will be available from Monday January 6,” Baard concluded.