 OLIFANTS – Recently there was a sighting in the Kruger National Park that touched many hearts all over social media. Against every hope, a giraffe that was stranded on the Olifants River for over a week, was discovered dead on February 3. UPDATE: Giraffe dies against every hope

The incident was brought under SANParks’ attention on January 31.
Naturally, there was a lot of speculation as to what caused the sudden rush of water. The reason was a lot of rain, causing a rapid rise in water levels. Even though there were lots of shouts to get human intervention in order to save the giraffe, SANParks decided to let nature take its course. As the level of the water lowered, there was no clear indication as to why it did not just cross the water. Up until now, it was believed that the giraffe starved to death, but a witness, Gareth Bright, saw what actually happened. “Earlier in the day we had seen the old male giraffe that had been stranded on the island for the past few days. Our afternoon drive was pretty uneventful so we decided to head to the bridge to see what was going on with it. “When we arrived, there was a second male that had joined the older one on the island, and, at first, I thought the behaviour was playful, but realised very quickly it was not. The blows being made by the younger bull were incredibly loud, and each time he made the attack, the older bull retreated, or tried to back off.  “This played out for around 20 minutes, then there was an almighty crack and the old bull dropped. He made several attempts to get back up, the other one just watched, almost to make sure he was defeated. “During this, a crocodile came ashore and clamped down over the giraffe.
“The young bull then crossed the water, between the island and the mainland with ease. It stood and watched as the crocodile finished killing the giraffe. We arrived there about 17:15, so the entire sighting took place within a 45-minute period, as we had to get back to camp before the gates closed. “The next morning we went back and it appeared that the neck and face were disfigured. I am assuming the presence of quite a few crocs and the fact that the water level was high kept the other predators and scavengers off the island. This is nature, not a zoo! It is not for the faint-hearted. We felt excitement and sadness. I mean, I am well aware that nature is nature and this happens, but it’s never great to see a big, beautiful animal go down. That said, I was incredibly excited about the whole experience, having never witnessed anything like this before. At the sighting, it was me, my girlfriend and her parents who are from Australia and about 20 other onlookers,” said Bright. Photos by Gareth Bright