Life’s mishaps happen and usually when you least expect it. Pipes burst, there’s a break-in, your child chokes on a toy, the list goes on. Thanks to UniGro’s revolutionary UNI-Help app, these are all things that you won’t need to worry about. You are home alone and you hear a strange noise, who do you call, what do you do? Easy, just click the red panic button in your app and in the blink of an eye a message gets sent to all security partners in the area’s control rooms, as well as the five closest reaction units. Before you can say “save me” a knight in uniform will come to your rescue  The boys are playing cricket outside and suddenly you hear the sound of breaking glass. Oh no! You run to see what is going on and see that they’ve hit a window. You need it fixed because it is a safety risk to leave it. All you need to do is click on your UNI-Help panic button and someone will be there to help you in a jiffy. This coverage section includes, roadside assist, home assist, home maintenance assist, emergency services notification and Pick me up.  In the unfortunate event of ending up behind bars, a lawyer will be there to assist you within three hours and if possible, also apply for your bail on your behalf.  The Wine Show’s in town and it’s the perfect opportunity for a ladies night, but who will be the designated driver? Worry not, with Pick Me Up, there will be absolutely no reason for you to try and drive under the influence as we all know the consequences. Before your event, just call to make a booking and a driving team will be there to pick you up. Your driving team consists of a lead driver and vehicle, as well as a back-up driver. The lead driver will drive you home in your own vehicle and a back-up driver will follow and collect the lead driver from the member’s preferred drop-off destination. You’ve bought a new car, but you aren’t quite familiar with the pedals and indicators, and manage to scratch it. UNI-Help’s insurance will cover your vehicle’s repairs for the insured amount and to top it all, you won’t have to take out a cent to cover the excess. The excess waiver is not only applicable to your vehicle, but to all of your insured belongings.   