 LOWS CREEK – Siyakhula Sonke Empowerment Corporation (SSC Group) is planning taking over Lily Mine from Vantage Goldfields. This was declared through its chief executive officer, Fred Arendse. The company is committed to reopening the mine and creating jobs to restore the livelihoods of community members. Arendse was speaking during the Lily Mine disaster commemoration held near the disaster site on Tuesday, exactly three years since the mine collapsed. Both Lily and Barbrook mines have been placed under business rescue in an effort to restart operations. It was reported earlier that the mine had secured an estimated R300 million to resume the rescue effort to recover the remains of the three mine workers whose bodies remain underground. “This mine must be reopened, so the people of this community may have their jobs back and their livelihoods restored. This is one of the ways we want to honour the lives of Pretty Nkambule, Solomon Nyirende and Yvonne Mnisi,” said Arendse. He further committed to commence the recruitment process for employees as early as March 27. Read More:  Lowvelder remembers Lily Mine traged Arendse also assured all members that his company is financially stable, able to take over the mine and would ensure that stringent safety measures are implemented to ensure the safety of workers once the mine is re-opened. The attendees comprised members of Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) members, including its president, Joseph Mathunjwa, the families of the trio, executives of SSC Group and members from the Department of Mineral Resources. Mathunjwa called for action to honour the legacies of Mnisi, Nkambule and Nyirende. “We must bring dignity to the memories of these fallen comrades, and this is a must. Comrades Pretty, Solomon and Yvonne are still buried in there and there is nothing dignified about this situation. We will never stop making noise about this tragic Lily Mine disaster,” declared Mathunjwa. He said the three people down there were theirs and they want them out. Also Read: Lily and Barbrook mines set to receive R190m cash injection “When AMCU called on the former President Jacob Zuma to declare Lily Mine a disaster zone, we were met with useless resistance. Vantage Goldfields cited that recovering our comrades would be an expensive undertaking – an example of monopoly capital that places profits above the lives of our people. AMCU demands rightful dignity for the buried comrades, their families and the community of this mine,” added Mathunjwa. Yvonne’s father, Elmon Mnisi, spoke on behalf of all the three families. He thanked the community for their unwavering support shown in the three years since the disaster. “I thank you for the support you have shown since our children were buried. AMCU has never left our side since that fateful day. Even to this day, they continue to fight for the memories of our children,” said an emotional Mnisi.