 This time it is not related to funds nor lack of payment to contractors and subcontractors. According to Themba Camane, general manager of properties and infrastructure at the Mpumalanga Economic Growth Agency (MEGA), a group of unidentified men threatened the workers on site last Thursday. The appointed ENZA Construction (Pty) Ltd, which is tasked with building the MIFPM top structures, had to stop construction. ALSO READ:Setbacks for fresh produce market “The contractors stopped the workers for safety purposes since they felt threatened. According to the reports we got the men who are threatening the workers were allegedly armed with guns and weapons.    “They demanded that the workers stop and stated that they should be chosen to do the job. No one knows who they are although we heard they could be community members. We currently negotiating with local councillors about the issue because we think it could be lack of communication. People who qualify will get their turn and we just need them to understand the process that is used to allocate jobs ,” he said. The site was handed over to ENZA on October 3, 2018. Camane said they have also raised the matter with the portfolio committee and they are busy resolving it. “They are planning to employ about 150 people and this will be done through following the proper procedures of employing people. The public has to understand that not everyone will get a job, although some people will have the opportunity. Those who are uncertain need to relax since the proper channels will be followed and those who qualify will be employed,” he said. ALSO READ:Striking workers fed up with being paid late This is not the first time that the construction has been halted. Last year a group of men with pangas went on site and demanded that the workers stop, although only for a day.   In the past months there have been numerous setbacks with subcontractors protesting due to delays in payments. The subcontractors held a site manager, Yeashiel Mabudeo, against his will on site. It is unclear when will they resume with work although MEGA said they are working on the issue.
The agency has also postponed the completion date by three years. In February MEGA said the estimated completion date was the end of 2019, although late last year they said it will be completed by early 2022. The cost of the market has exceeded the initial estimates that were announced when the project was started. In 2013 the Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Land and Environmental Affairs estimated that the market would cost R1 billion over five years. In 2015 MEGA said R2 billion would be required to complete the project.
The agency is now negotiating with the Industrial Development Corporation to fund the shortfall of approximately R1,2 billion. According Camane, even if they do not obtain external funders they will still be able to complete the project.
“The provincial government will fund the project, the public must be aware that lack of raising funds from external funders this will not affect the project,” he said. The contractor, Liviero Civils (PTY) Limited, was appointed for the installation of civil engineering bulk services such as water, sewerage and road networks. This started in February 2017 and now they are said to be done.