 “By the end of June 2018 we had no less than 29 Haval dealers countrywide thanks to full factory back-up from our parent company in China.” The H9 is the fifth luxury SUV model in the Haval range to be launched in South Africa in less than 18 months. “Our objective is to have 35 Haval dealers across the country by the end of this year,” says Zhao.  The big n ew seven-seater H9 has outperformed some much more expensive rivals in other right-hand drive markets, and drew high praise from judges in Australia’s coveted 4×4 awards in 2017, calling it “a machine rugged enough to survive the Australian outback”. ALSO READ:Loading two new arrows into Husqvarna’s quiver The H9 is powered by the 180kW version of the brand’s own award-winning 2.0-litre petrol engine with double-channel turbo charging. The exhaust gas flow is transferred to the turbine via two channels, boosting engine power and torque delivery. The four-cylinder power plant has direct fuel injection which is accurately controlled by the electronic control unit, increasing the mixing efficiency of fuel and air, which improves combustion and reduces consumption.  The engine delivers its maximum power output at 5 500r/min with maximum torque of 350Nm@1 800r/min all the way up to  4 500r/min, which allows superior pull-away and acceleration performance. The 2.0-litre petrol turbo offers an outstanding 90kW achieving peak performance in all driving conditions with little input. Although the engine is an in-house development, Haval reached out to German engineering for the H9’s ZF eight-speed 4WD transmission. It boasts paddle shift for precision off-road driving. The driver can select the most appropriate real-time road mode from six options via the multifunctional display knob on the secondary instrument panel so that the system can automatically control the driving and braking force to achieve the best performances. The rear axle offers a limited slip differential where the driving force of the wheel at the traction-loss side is distributed to the wheel at the other side via the electro hydraulic control unit, which maximises the vehicle’s ability to utilise traction effectively, greatly improving the vehicle’s driving stability and enhanced ability to get out of difficult conditions in complex on- and off-road conditions. The engine, transmission, suspension, and body are installed on a high-rigidity frame. The suspension provides great stability and comfort and ensures excellent safety and on- and off-road performance while maintaining stability.  The multilink rear suspension and independent double-wishbone front suspension ensure that the wheels remain in contact with the road and deliver a smoother ride. The Haval H9 has a body-on-frame design with a high-strength frame for outstanding rigidity in strenuous conditions. Under the skin, side-impact collision bars, front and back crumple zones and an energy-absorbing steering column protect the occupants in the event of a collision. ALSO READ:Ready to ride? Join the Cycle Tribe relaunch Active safety features include all-round “all-directional” airbags, seat belt pre-tensioners, ISO-FIX child seat anchors, a tyre pressure monitoring system and driver status detection system, all guaranteeing the safety for occupants. Electronic driver aids include ABS, brake assist and ESP, hill-start assist control, roll movement intervention as well as cross-traffic alert and lane-change alert. The H9 is a fully-specked vehicle in every way, boasting practical, comfort and luxury equipment. From the leather seats in three rows, including an eight-way electrically adjustable driver seat with lumbar support and memory function and four-way electrically adjustable front passenger seat with ventilation and massage, manually adjustable second row of three seats and the electrically foldable twin seats in the third row, to a long list of features including three-zone climate control air conditioning, an advanced multimedia system with an eight-inch touchscreen and integrated satellite navigation, the H9 is, well, fully equipped. Three ambient light variations, located at the bottom of the instrument panel as well as the door trim panels, create a relaxed colour-enhanced atmosphere. Seven-inch LCD touchscreen: It integrates perfectly with the analogue instruments. The background on the display has three colour-changing modes that tie in with the drive terrain modes, enhancing the visual senses and allowing driver/occupants and machine to feel “connected”. The second row of seats have a 60/40 split while the twin seats in the third row can be divided 50/50 and folded into the floor to increase luggage space.  With the rear seats folded down, the H7 boasts a luggage volume of 747 litres under the removable trunk cover. Automatic headlights with built-in cleaning system, DRL (day-time running lights), fog lights front and rear and even side-step illumination, the new H9 won’t keep anyone in the dark. It boasts AFS (adaptive front-lighting system) which meets all illumination needs, including focusing the headlights around bends to improve safety. Blind spot detection and line combination assist (LCA): Real-time detection is performed for the left and right blind spots of the vehicle via the radar detector. In the event of danger when changing lanes, the alarm light inside the door will give a warning.  When a vehicle is rapidly approaching from the adjacent lane, the radar detector will monitor the adjacent lanes up to 70 metres behind the vehicle in real time, and buzz an alarm. Reverse side warning (CTA): The radar sensor also detects moving vehicles in the rear when reversing. In the event of a vehicle approaching, the alarm light inside the door on the side of the oncoming vehicle. The new model is available as the H9 2.0 Petrol 4WD Luxury and is priced at  R599 900.