 MBOMBELA – Tomorrow will be the biggest Lowveld high schools’ athletics showdown of the year. Hundreds of hopeful track and field athletes will compete in the 70th Mediclinic Interhigh and the crowd should gear themselves for nail-biting performances, which will surely include some blood, sweat and tears. These youngsters are hungry for a win and if they have their way, the oldest Interhigh track and field record might just be wiped from the record books tomorrow when they line up for the u/19 girls’ 200-metre race.
Forty four years ago, at this very meeting held in White River in 1975, Marna de Villiers (now Van der Burgh) won the u/19 200 metres to set a new Interhigh record of 24,80 seconds which has never been broken. “If you can’t do it, it will be because of your endurance. It wasn’t actually that fast,” said the very woman who broke the record, Marna van der Burgh. Her passion for athletics is still going strong. She now coaches athletics in Paarl and her career has yielded many successful athletes like Gisele Magerman. In 1981, she got married to André van der Burgh with whom she has three children, Ruan, Marné and her youngest, a 25-year-old American tennis player, Christiaan van der Burgh.  Marna was born in Rustenburg. She later relocated to Kaapmuiden where she stayed until grade five, after which she relocated to Barberton where she finished her school career. When she was 18, at the peak of her athletics career at Hoërskool Barberton, she achieved her record. She actually could not believe it when Lowvelder told her she holds the oldest record, as she does not consider this to be “that good”. Marna considers her time at SAs of 23,70 seconds for the 200 metres and her 100 metres in 11,60 seconds in grade 12, as much more respectable. Yet, she attributes this record to her coach and mentor, the late Jan van Rooyen. “We didn’t have Internet then, so Van Rooyen taught me from the books he had. But he was too soft on me. His methods weren’t a complete mishit. Even though the methods were old, I still use some of it today,” she said. Her new coach, put her up against an older, faster and stronger boy in her school. “I don’t like losing, and don’t tell me it can’t be done, so racing against Stan Hohowsky pushed me to the limit and attributed to my mindset which I still have today,” she said. Marna reckoned at Interhigh, if an athlete can run the 100 metres in 12,1 seconds, they can beat her time and break the record. She added that athletes should get enough sleep before the event, eat protein in the morning, and a little bit of carbohydrates during the day. “Drink lots of water and stay away from sugar,” Marna advised. A comprehensive story on the Interhigh can be found on page 44 and 45 of today’s Lowvelder. Read more local sport here