 MBOMBELA – The Miss and Mister Deaf World and Europe and Asia will be held outside Prague for the very first time in its 19-year history and the Lowveld has been chosen as the place. The rights to the competition was procured by Jacques Lombard through the Mrs Mpumalanga pageant and, along with his partner Zané Jansen van Rensburg. They look forward to a production of note. ALSO READ: Mbombela to host the 2019 Miss Deaf World pageant They met with the competition’s CEO, Josef Unlir, who visited the Lowveld from the Czech Republic last week. With the help of translation machines, Unlir explained to Lowvelder that he heard a lot of information and praise about this city. That is why he reached out to Lombard. “This competition was set in place to empower those who are deaf or are hard of hearing. These models look exactly the same on a runway as a model who is able to hear,” Unlir said.
According to him, the competition between the contestants is always very friendly. “Deaf friendships are formed across country borders, and the contestants learn for themselves how well they are able to perform during a showcase.” ALSO READ: Provincial school system failing “There is a lot of details to discuss, such as accommodation and meals for the contestants as well as the various fashion shows that will also be held apart from the actual competition,” Lombard said. He explained that at the end of the competition there will be six winners: A Miss and Mister Deaf World, a Miss and Mister Deaf Europe and a Miss and Mister Deaf Asia. “All the countries across the world will be bringing their own translators, as well as their own clothing, including their national wear,” Lombard said. He added that for the fashion shows he would like to make use of the towns surrounding Mbombela as well as some local designers. The development of the deaf community is something that is very close to the heart of Unlir, as well as Jansen van Rensburg and Lombard who also aim to establish growth in the Lowveld.