If you’re in the market for a car this year, look no further than Nelspruit Multifranchise. They have some great deals available, so before you buy anywhere else, see these amazing offers below. Packed with hidden safety features, your i20 comes with driver and passenger dual airbags, seatbelt pretensioner system, and collapsible steering column. Tensile steel protection beams run along the inside panels of all the doors, so you’re protected from every side. The i20 comes with a 40L tank and two engine options. The 1.2L Kappa MPI engine delivers a combined figure of 5.9L/100km and the 1.4 Kappa MPI engine and manual transmission delivers 6.5L/100km, under testing conditions. Whichever one you choose, you’ll be sure to go far. The new 2018 i20 has one of the quietest cabins around, thanks to the double NVH Padding invested into the vehicles panels. This ensures a high quality sensation when driving. Once you fall into its emotional interior design, you might not want to get out of the car. The cabin is finished in carefully chosen materials creating a high-quality ambience that is unique in this class. Drive comfortably with the new ergonomic dashboard layout. Life isn’t going to wait until you’re parked. So, hit the Bluetooth hands-free button on the steering wheel, pair your smartphone with the audio system, and make and receive calls through the 4″ speaker sound system while you’re on the go. For safer parking and backing up, the i20 Fluid and Sport are equipped with sensors which are mounted in the rear bumper to help detect any unseen dangers whilst reversing. Hands on the wheel and eyes on the road! Yet, still so much you can do. User friendly buttons on the steering wheel enable you to easily control the volume, manage calls and access the trip computer.   The all new Tucson is powerful, with sharper lines, sleeker curves and a distinctive chrome-framed hexagonal grille that makes a head-turning statement. Exclusive to the Tucson Executive and the Tucson Elite: Blind spot detection that uses sophisticated rear sensors to monitor your ‘blind spot’, alerting you when an object is within close proximity.  Premium audio system: Bluetooth, USB, AUX and iPod Connectivity for seamless surround sound experience. Multi-Function Steering Wheel: All the controls you need are mounted right within reach. Control your audio stations and volume levels, your speed with cruise control, and Bluetooth hands-free phone system with just the press of a button on the steering wheel.  Reverse Camera (Rear Park Assist): Rear-view camera is activated once the vehicle is put into reverse. The Rear view Camera displays in the 7″ infotainment system screen.     