 The Kruger National Park comprises of two million hectares of pristine wilderness that is zoned into four very distinct areas – Central Kruger Park, Southern Kruger Park, Northern Kruger Park, and the Kruger’s Far North Region. Positioned in prime game viewing areas of the park are a collection of self-catering rest camps. There are a total of twelve main camps that are equipped with electricity, a first-aid centre, grocery shop, barbeque facilities, communal kitchen facilities, a laundromat, a restaurant and/or self-service cafeteria, public telephones, and a gas station. Five bushveld camps are positioned in more remote areas of the park and are smaller in size. These camps do restrict the use of electrical appliances like hairdryers and do not have a restaurant or grocery shop. Four satellite camps offer a true wilderness experience, providing only the very basics and no electricity. There are however certain self-catering rest camps that stand out from the rest – whether it be their location, style of accommodation, or guest facilities. Lower Sabie is a firm favourite – positioned on the banks of the perennial Sabie River, boasting campsites, huts, safari tents, bungalows, and a guesthouse. This surrounding area is well known for its big cat sightings, as well as buffalo, elephant, and rhino. The camp activities  include guided game drives and bush walks, as well as a bird hide and outdoor dining experiences. Satara is a charming rustic camp that nestles in a wooded area where animal movement is frequent. Generally, one can spot lions, giraffe, wildebeest, honey badgers, and even red-billed buffalo weavers. The camp comprises of campsites, bungalows, guest cottages, and guesthouses. Activities on offer at Satara include guided bush walks and game drives, a wilderness trail, two bird hides, a 4×4 adventure trail, and bush dining experiences. Biyamiti Bushveld Camp is regarded as one of the most beautiful camps in the Kruger because of its location on the banks of the Mbiyamiti river, surrounded by thick bush and huge jackalberry trees. The camp is relatively smaller than others, with only fifteen self-catering cottages. Activities on offer include guided game drives and bush walks, with frequent sightings of leopard, cheetah, and the endangered wild dog. Talamati Bushveld Camp is positioned within a vast grassland region of the Kruger and features only fourteen self-catering cottages, affording a more intimate safari experience. The camp is a popular grazing ground for large herds of antelope and attracts a number of predators, particularly hyena and leopard. Activities offered at the camp include guided bush walks and game drives.