 MBOMBELA – For nearly a year, Burger and Jacobs were on trial for organising a hit on her husband, Pieter Burger. Their nightmare came to an end in the Nelspruit Regional Court on Tuesday, when the magistrate, André Geldenhuys, ruled that they had been innocent all along. Miles Mcauley, a man who called himself a whistle-blower, told the Hawks that he had been paid by the duo to kill Pieter Burger. Burger is a local businessman. Mcauley previously worked as an informer, assisting Jacobs with rhino poaching investigations. When Elske and Jacobs learnt that warrants had been issued for their arrests in March, they handed themselves over to the police. Both stated that they were innocent. They were released on bail of R1 500 and the case was transferred to the Nelspruit Regional Court.  Mcauley was supposed to be cross-examined on Tuesday, but failed to show up at court. Pieter, the complainant, was not there either. “The complainant is on a business trip in Dubai. He is supposed to be the victim in all of this,” Geldenhuys said.
“He is clearly not interested in this matter.” Pieter stated on enquiry that the investigating officer told him he would not have to attend. Geldenhuys did not mince his words concerning Mcauley. “The court cannot rely on his testimony as he had three different versions of the truth that he insisted were all true,” he said and added that Mcauley failed to appear for cross-examination by the defence. The prosecution requested a postponement of the case, which was denied. “We are extremely disappointed in the way we were treated by the SAPS and the NPA,” said Elske and Jacobs, in correspondence provided to the publication via attorney, Coert Jordaan. “We view their treatment and behaviour towards us as malicious,” they stated. Lowvelder presented the Hawks and the NPA with these allegations. The latter’s mandate includes prosecuting only if there is a prima facie case against the accused, which Geldenhuys ruled out based on a lack of evidence. Spokesman, Monica Nyuswa reiterated that this happened because the witness’ testimony could not be relied on.
Contrary to Geldenhuys’ finding, Nyuswa said that “the NPA is of the view that there was a prima facie case against both accused” and added that there was no malicious prosecution against either. The Hawks previously indicated that their investigations had taken a month. Lowvelder asked spokesman, Capt Lucy Sekgotodi how the unit reacted to their investigations having produced no real proof against the two people who were arrested. No response was received at the time of going to press.
Elske and Jacobs are seeking legal advice and want to institute action against both entities. “We are incredibly glad that justice prevailed in court at the end of the day,” their statement concluded.