 MBOMBELA – The City of Mbombela Local Municipality’s dog catcher has reportedly been moved to another department, leaving the position empty. Lowvelder was given this message when phoning the municipality, wanting to report a stray dog. It is alleged that the position has been empty since December. This has affected many residents like local, Tanya Roos, who said that she had tried both in December and January to phone the dog catcher but that he never picked up the phone. “We found stray dogs both in West Acres and in Sonheuwel close to The Rest and tried to phone but there was no answer,” Roos said. ALSO READ: Animal cruelty emergency? Phone the Nelspruit SPCA Another local, Alta Purdon, said that she also spotted stray dogs in West Acres two weeks ago and tried to phone the dog catcher continuously. “It was a really uncomfortable situation and I felt very sorry for the dogs running around,” Purdon said.  She said that she did not see the dogs again and are unsure where they went, but suspects and hopes that they went back to their owners. Municipality spokesman, Joseph Ngala said that the service is still available. “The dog catching services are requested and rendered through the emergency services of the council that can be reached on 013-753-3331. Dog catching services are provided like any other rescue services,” Ngala said. When phoning the municipality Lowvelder was also told that it should phone the SPCA in this regard. SPCA vice-chairman, Ludi Botha said that they have been receiving calls about stray dogs and members of the public telling them that the dog catcher is not answering.
However, catching stray dogs is not within their jurisdiction. ALSO READ: SPCA pleads for help from municipality, citizens for new farm pound “We are the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. If a dog is hurt or has been abused or malnourished, we will step in,” Botha said. He added that if someone was to bring in a stray dog to the kennel, they would have to accept it, but that they cannot go out and pick up the animal as that would interfere with the duties of the municipality.