 KANYAMAZANE – At the beginning of January the Department of Human Settlements spokesman, Freddy Ngobe, said that it rehabilitated nearly 1 000 of the first batch of 1 050 houses that were badly affected by a hail storm in May last year. A total of 2 130 houses were damaged. Contrary to the original statement, Ngobe told Lowvelder on Wednesday that only 881 houses have been fixed. When asked what exactly this means, Ngobe said “I think there has been a slight development since then (January), it’s just that now we went with the actual number.” He explained that with the first number they rounded up and ended up giving the newspaper the correct total this time around, but that “all houses that had opened and badly damaged roofs have since been fixed.”  When the newspaper visited the area in January, it found that a lot of people were still without roofs or had very badly damaged roofs and were terribly afraid of the rainy forecasts. ALSO READ: PHOTOS: Lowvelders wake to protests on Monday morning The department originally set the deadline for the completion of this first batch as the end of January, although it was not met. Ngobe said that they are anticipating full completion of this first batch before the end of the current financial year and added that the entire project should be completed by the end of September. However, in order to complete the entire project, the department previously indicated that they would require R119 million, R100 million more than the R19 million that was initially procured for the project. Houses in KaNyamazane are still covered in blue tarpaulin due to the damage to the roofs. According to Ngobe, the budget that was used to finish the 881 houses came from internal re-prioritisation of funds from other projects. They applied for the additional funding to complete the project from the National Department of Human Settlements. ALSO READ: Electricity transformer trip causes water disruption in KaNyamazane “The department has confirmation from the national department that the required additional funding will be soon received and/or processed,” Ngobe said.