 Something like eating fresh fruit cut in small pieces with yogurt added and some custard on the side – just to be totally lavish or, a slice of French toast with apricot jam instead of tomato sauce or perhaps, I think like they do up in the Northern Cape – a braai burger with a patty and jam instead? It sounds quite mouth-watering, don’t you think?  Well, with this being a paper for petrolheads, maybe something like driving a car that you have never considered as a possible transport solution for the family?  Actually, just between us, the family part is just a smokescreen.  You want this car, and basta! I recently drove the new Subaru Forester, and although it is not as if have have not driven a Subaru in a long time, driving a Subaru, any Subaru, is always a treat. ALSO READ:Barry Sheen – Classic racing at its best If it carries a WRX badge, its a very special treat. The Forester does not carry this distinction, but it still offers something special. It is not a small car. One especially realizes this when you sit in the driver’s seat. It fills the space between the yellow and white lines with distinction and offers busloads of interior space. The front end is bold and characterized by the bash plate, large fog lamps and prominent headlight clusters. The bonnet, with its four style lines, presents a powerful, confident energy.  This links well with styled edges defining the side of the car. Those sloping shoulder lines and sharp wheel arches bring an element of masculinity to the Forester. I love the calming symmetry of the rear end. This is important, because from a design point of view, the rest of the car is quite busy. With 220mm of ground clearance, driving on gravel is an absolute blast. There really is no other vehicle that will match the Forester’s prowess in this department. The silver inlays on the dashboard and instrument panel brings some sparkle to a somewhat subdued dark interior. This introduces a luxurious look and feel into the car. Also, despite the busyness of dashboard and instrument lighting, it is not distracting in any way. It adds to the upmarket and quality atmosphere of the interior.  Seats are exceptionally comfortable with more than just ample legroom and luggage space in the rear. If you are a sunroof kind of person, opening the Forester’s will fill the interior with light and spaciousness. The touchscreen infotainment with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, rear seat charging points and a Karmon Kardon speaker system will satisfy the needs of the most demanding young ones, allowing you to simply sit back and enjoy the unadulterated road manners of the Forester. Fitted with a 2.0-litre direct-injection engine delivering 115kW and 196Nm, the Forester is not a powerhouse in terms of performance (compared with the WRX derivatives) but here’s the thing: its asymmetrical suspension set-up is unmatched in terms of how it delivers the power to the road and feedback to the driver, so pushing hard through the sweeps, tights and the twists makes for an exiting and adrenalin-generating drive. It is planted, solid and confident, and will always deliver more than what you expect and invites more than what you thought possible.  Thus, spending time in your Forester will become quite addictive. Subaru’s X-Mode optimizes the symmetrical all-wheel drive for maximum traction in all conditions, resulting in handling stability and agility beyond the norm. Power is delivered to all the wheels all the time. This is what differentiates the driving and road performance of Subaru vehicles to that of all others. Fuel consumption during our weekend drive indexed at about 10.2 litres/100km. Personally I think most drivers would achieve an average of around 10-12 km/litre with mindful driving. In case of a collision, the Subaru’s engine will be pushed down below the vehicle instead of crashing into the cabin. The Forester’s design offers excellent visibility in all directions and with rear vehicle detection, vehicle dynamic control, active torque vectoring, adaptive cruise control and pre-collision braking among other features, you can rest assured that you are driving one of the safest cars on the market.  I tested the pre-collision braking without warning Annalize next to me – it worked,  but of course, she did not appreciate the skrik! This works in conjunction with Subaru’s EyeSight Driver Assist Technology. This system is controlled via a set of dual color cameras consistently and constantly scanning the road for any danger. ALSO READ:They make ’em really tough in the Lowveld Can you afford not to be just a tad selfish, even though the latter will be undercover? Go and drive SA’s most affordable symmetrical all-wheel drive SUV. It is a Forester and a true Subaru legend!