The store recently moved to bigger and better premises in Riverside Junction, shop 9.  The shop and its staff have always striven to stay on top of the latest trends to ensure that their customers always have access to what is new and exciting on the market. Along with great products, they will continue to offer the same friendly service that their customers were accustomed to at the previous shop in Riverside Industrial.  Not only is the shopping experience at the new location first class, they have also incorporated some unique attractions to the store including a LED-illuminated indoor waterfall, a large aquarium to give clients a glimpse into the underwater world, as well as a life-like fishing simulator, where shoppers can feel how it feels to catch a variety of fresh and saltwater fish species. The decision to move to the new premises was based on a number of considerations.  Firstly, it offers a bigger and better space which would allow them to offer an even larger selection of products and services to customers.  Riverside Junction is a well-established shopping centre in Mbombela with a number of other similar outdoor-lifestyle-related retailers that draw people to the centre, so the new premises is a perfect fit for the new chapter of the store. The employees at Angling & Outdoor World are all avid anglers and embrace the outdoor culture. Everyone on the sales team works with enthusiasm and determination, and relishes the opportunity to share expertise with customers and help them select the right gear for whatever angling or outdoor pursuit they will be undertaking.  Peter and Ronel Zonneveld, the owners of the store, are passionate about the outdoors and boast an impressive fishing résumé between them, from fishing for trophy tigers in Cahorra Bassa to targeting various saltwater game fish in Mozambique and Kenya, to name a few. Michael Cronje, the manager of the store, has been sharing his considerable fishing know-how with customers in Mpumalanga for over a decade.  The newest member of the staff, Christo Pretorius, is a young adventure seeker who has spent countless hours fishing in both fresh and saltwater for numerous species. “At Angling & Outdoor World we try to stock the most popular and sought-after brands in all our departments, whether we are talking about fishing gear, boating accessories, water toys, archery equipment or outdoor goods.”  “We are proud to be able to offer top brands to our customers including Berkley, Abu Garcia, Penn, Shimano, Rapala, VMC, Lowrance, Williamson, Pulsator, Mustad, Stealth, Airflo, Smith Optics, Costa, QuickSilver, AirHead, Scotty, Hoyt, Easton and TruGlo, to name only a few.” “On top of having one of the largest product selections in Mpumalanga for our clients to choose from, we also endeavour to make these products available at unbeatable prices,” said Cronje.”  “We were absolutely blown away by the support we received from our customers and the community during our grand opening.” “It was a huge privilege to be able to show off the new shop to our existing clients, and just as big a privilege to have so many new customers visit us for the first time.”  “To all our existing and new customers, the representatives from Stealth Fishing and Tackle Asylum who attended, our staff and assistants, the dependable suppliers who sponsored prizes and giveaways, and everyone else who came out to our grand opening, we would like to say a massive thank you for making the day such a huge success,” Cronje concluded.”   