 The most-capped iSG Pumas player of all time, De-Jay Terblanche (33) is going to play Guinness PRO 14 rugby for the Isuzu Southern Kings. At the age when many front-rankers have retired or are considering retirement, the Pumas stalwart is starting a new adventure. The Kings approached the Pumas recently in an attempt to recruit a player to solve their prop injury crisis. According to iSG Pumas director of rugby, Jimmy Stonehouse,  the union realised the positive opportunity of the veteran loose-head gaining experience at a higher level of rugby. A loan agreement was quickly reached and Terblanche was on a flight to Port Elizabeth. Terblanche has played 187 matches for the Pumas. He made his debut in the 2008 season, scoring a try. He has scored 14 tries in a Pumas jersey. Last season he overtook Francois Rossouw (183 games) as the most-capped Pumas player ever. “De-Jay has always be an example to everyone (in the team setup) for his attitude on and off the field. He never gives up and he has now earned his break, a chance to play at Pro 14 level. We wish him the best of luck and look forward to him bringing what he learns back to the Pumas,” said Stonehouse. Terblanche’ s  humbleness and attitude were evident when Lowvelder spoke to him yesterday. “ This came as a surprise. On Tuesday the Kings spoke to me and on Wednesday I was on a flight. It’s a great opportunity but I am going to take it one day at a time, just like I did with my 187 matches for the Pumas. It’s a huge privilege to have this chance,” he said. Terblanche will be joining up with his former Pumas teammates, Giant Mtyanda, Stephan Greeff and Stefan Ungerer at the Kings. The Kings are at the bottom of Conference B of the Pro 14 log and out of the running for a play-off spot. They have eight remaining matches.  Terblanche will return to the Pumas, battle hardened for the SuperSport Rugby Challenge, after the Kings’ last match of the campaign against the Cheetahs on the last weekend of April. He will commence his 12th season for the Pumas. Until then the Eastern Cape team have the loyal services of the most-experienced prop presently playing professional rugby in South Africa. The Kings face the Toyota Cheetahs in Bloemfontein tomorrow. Terblanche will start the match in the number one jersey.