 WHITE RIVER – Damien Crous, who is the father of their one-year-old son, told Lowvelder that since that day, friends and family have not heard from her. “That morning she told me she wanted to take the car to go to the shops. She does not have a driver’s licence, so I told her I would take her. She wanted to go to a couple of shops, so instead of me waiting in the car with the baby, I told her I will drop her off and she can phone me later to fetch her.” Crous then allegedly dropped her off outside NTT Toyota. “I gave her R800 and she put the money in her bra as she did not have her handbag. When I got home I waited for her to call. Then I saw her phone was in the house, on a charger.”  Crous then waited for Dreyer to call him. “I thought she would still make a plan to phone me as she knows my number. I am still waiting for her to phone.” Deyer was last wearing black shorts, a striped vest and flip-flops. She has a tattoo on her left foot.
Crous had reported Dreyer missing to the police.  The organisation Pink Ladies sent out a national alert about her disappearance. “We heard someone in Sabie saw her and then there was someone in Lydenburg who also said they saw her, but nothing came of it.” ALSO READ:What you need to know if you are involved in a car accident He admitted that as a couple they had had been in a down period in their relationship and had been arguing a lot before she went missing. “She told me she wanted to leave me many times.”  He said he and his son have been coping, but it has been difficult being a single parent. A close friend of Dreyer’s said she had made mistakes in her past, but had changed her life for the better over the past few years. “I don’t believe she would have left like this, and to leave her baby behind. She never wanted to be away from her son. Some people think she has gone back to her old life. I just do not believe she ran away without her son or even her handbag and a phone or any belongings.” White River SAPS spokesman, Sgt Cynthia Mbokodo said the police were investigating a missing persons case. Anyone with any information regarding this case is to contact the investigating officer, Det PX Ngobe on 073-306-1140 or 060-606-5279.