The Caxton & CTP Group is constantly improving its print and digital properties and this latest move will offer the market bespoke safari holidays.  According to Alexis Boshoff, CEO of Safari.com: “Our offering helps travellers from around the world plan, book and experience the perfect safari holiday. We do this by leveraging our passion for Africa and expert safari planning knowledge to tailor-make perfectly suited itineraries for each individual traveller or group. This ensures that everyone that books through Safari.com gets their safari holiday of a lifetime, at the best price.”  Safari.com has two divisions, a luxury to mid-range division specialising in Eastern and Southern African safaris and a self-catering division that assists both international and local travellers in booking South African National Parks accommodation.  Says Nyle McKee, Head of Group Commercial Partnerships at Caxton Digital: “Safari.com joins our other digital properties including online retail aggregator Guzzle, Private Property, All4Women and Autodealer among others. We’re so excited to have Safari.com on board. In the short time the partnership has been live we’ve had tremendous interest on the site from users across South Africa. It seems that South African consumers are in the market for a holiday all year round!”  Alexis adds: “Safari.com’s integrated content and offerings into Caxton’s local newspaper websites means incredible safari related content for all readers across Caxton’s network, as well as some exclusive safari deals for those readers. We’re looking forward to an exciting and long partnership ahead with Caxton.”  “Safari.com is unique from competitors in many ways. Primarily we believe that our care for our clients is at the forefront of what sets us apart; we truly want to see our clients experience the African safari holiday of a lifetime. Safari.com has a deep history in the safari industry, having assisted over 200,000 travellers in planning, booking and enjoying their safari holidays for over a decade.” For further information call 021 468 7255 or email helpmeplan@safari.com. 