 MBOMBELA – “Dear family. I’ve been with you for a 12 full years and it’s been the best. Well, most of it I don’t remember. I would like to say Happy Valentine’s Day and have a lovely day.” This is the message Mxolisi Zwane Waka Sambo Jr, affectionately known as MJ, sent on his family group on Thursday, only three days before he would meet his untimely death in an accident on Saturday. According to the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison spokesman, Moeti Mmusi, the car MJ was in collided with a bus around 06:30 on the R538 close to Premier Hotel The Winkler. MJ was a good athlete. The vehicle caught fire on impact and MJ, as well as the driver, Phamuel Mathe, died. Sixty- nine patients were transported to Themba, Kiaat and Rob Ferreira hospitals.
MJ’s father, Mxolisi Zwane Waka Sambo Sr, said this is a very difficult time for the family. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Uplands pupil one of two victims in collision on R538 “He was such a nice soul to have around and I loved him very much,” Sambo said.
According to him, MJ, who celebrated his 12th birthday on February 1, was the “baby boy” of the family. He leaves behind two older brothers and an elder sister who is currently in matric at Uplands, as well as his mother Mapula Sambo. Miss Universe 2017 Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, Mxolisi Zwane Waka Sambo Jr (MJ) and actress Minnie Dlamini. “He was a very good sportsman,” Sambo said. MJ played golf at White River Country Club and was a member of his school’s, Uplands Preparatory, soccer team. He also played for the provincial hockey team and was one of the school’s star athletes. Mathe was driving him to an athletics meet when the accident happened. “I was told that when the children found out about his death, the soccer and the athletics team all started crying. I never met anyone who did not like my son. He was full of love and energy. When he got angry he would start crying and walk away from the situation, only returning when he had calmed down,” Sambo said. Phamuel Mathe, the family’s driver. It is, however, not only the loss of their son that has the family in tears, but also that of Mathe, who was the family driver for 25 years. “He was part of our family. He never had an accident before the fatal one on Saturday,” Sambo said. According to him, Mathe was a friendly and lovable man who also transported senior citizens to and from the Anglican Church. Mxolisi Zwane Waka Sambo Jr. “There is a service today at 09:30, but he will not be there to pick up the senior citizens from the home. All of the old ladies are devastated by this loss,” Sambo said, adding that Mathe was always very reliable. “We now have to continue with our lives, although it is very tough for us.” Mxolisi Zwane Waka Sambo Jr and Sr. According to the Department of Health spokesman, Dumisani Malamule, the patients who were transported to Rob Ferreira Hospital have all been released. A memorial service for MJ will be held at Uplands on Wednesday at 14:00 while his funeral will be held at the St George’s Anglican Church in White River on Saturday. ALSO READ: Uplands birthday celebration at 2018 Uplands Festival