 Manamela was at UMP to monitor the 2019 registration last Thursday. This was part of the DHET campaign to monitor and ensure a smooth registration process at all institutions of higher learning. Last year students boycotted classes, exams were interrupted and workers protested. The students accused management of corruption and nepotism.Some students and workers were arrested after a police officer was assaulted with stones. ALSO READ:Two suspended after strike at University of Mpumalanga Manamela said he wants the university management, students and workers to work together to avoid the issues that transpired last year. “There are issues outstanding from last years protest. I will get a report from both and get to listen to both sides. There are people from the department that were asked to come in, including the vice-chancellor of UMP Prof Thoko Mayekiso so that all the parties will come together. We are doing this so that we will not see a repeat of some of the things that happened last year. I am quite confident that the university will open and the academic year will start smoothly,” he explained.
The deputy minster also interacted with both the management and students on issues such as registration fees and National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS), and inroads in assisting prospective and academically deserving students to obtain free quality education. ALSO READ:Students boycott classes at university
Manamela also visited Ehlanzeni TVET College.   UMP has added new qualifications. Mayekiso said they will introduce new courses every year. “We started in 2014 with three and now in 2019 we have 20 courses. By 2022 we should have close to 100. We are a comprehensive institution so we have all faculties. On the undergraduate level we have a BSc degree, in the past we had BSc in agriculture and BAgric. Now we are going to offer a general formative BSc qualification. Others are advanced diplomas in various fields of agriculture. We are introducing two honours programmes, an honours in development studies and in agricultural extension. We will also have two master’s programmes, in early childhood and agriculture,” she said. Registration started on Monday.