The transaction became effective on 1 February and is part of a bold new strategy initiated by Private Property’s recently appointed CEO, Amasi Mwela, to expand and enhance the service it offers its customers. “The Property Buyer Show will allow us to improve the range of services we offer to our customers by creating a rounded offering that covers the whole property life cycle. It will also position us favourably for what we believe to be the next great opportunity in real estate: the growing numbers of South Africans who are entering the middle class and looking to begin building wealth through property,” Mr Mwela says. “This growing number of first-time property buyers have a clear understanding of what property can do for them, and we aim to be the partner they choose to realise their goals in an increasingly difficult economic climate. The Property Buyer Show gives us a solid platform on which to establish ourselves within this expanding segment.” The Property Buyer Show brings all role-players in the industry—real-estate professionals and agencies, banks, developers and conveyancers—together in one place to offer first-time buyers and investors access to the information and expertise they need to make an informed decision. It includes a ‘First Time Buyer Theatre’ and a ‘Property Investor Theatre’ where visitors can attend workshops and talks on buying property and building wealth through property. The Show began in 2017 and its five events have attracted over 15,000 visitors. The 6th Property Buyer Show will be held in Cape Town in April 2019. Private Property’s newly-appointed CEO, Amasi Mwela Before joining Private Property in 2018, Mr Mwela was CEO of Fundi (then Eduloan). During his tenure, the company moved from purely offering student loans into one that looks beyond finance to offer a multifaceted, end-to-end solution covering the entire education journey. In disrupting the education finance sector, he was able to position Fundi as a leading player. “The Property Buyer Shows will be hugely successful under the wing of Private Property and they will continue to support and complement sales and investment in the residential real estate market of South Africa,” says MD of Spintelligent, David Ashdown. “We wish the event portfolio, and all involved, a tremendous future with Private Property.” Mr Mwela is equally positive. “Private Property, in concert with its industry partners, is just at the beginning of a journey to create an unmatched customer experience for all property buyers, including current and aspiring property investors. We are inspired by the role we believe we can play in helping thousands of our people to lay the foundations of prosperity and, in the process, greatly strengthen our economy and society. “Watch this space.” Here are some of the highlights from the 2018 Johannes burg and Durban Property Buyers Shows: WATCH: Joburg Property Buyer Show brings value to developers IN TWEETS: The Joburg Property Buyer Show attracts property enthusiasts to Sandton Convention Centre Property Buyer Show a great place to learn about buying a home 