 MBOMBELA – The Road Accident Fund (RAF) will take its service excellence directly to the community of Masoyi and surrounding areas of White River and Hazyview tomorrow, (Saturday, February 23). The event will take place at Masoyi Combined School from 08:00. According to Phumelela Dhlomo, RAF chief marketing officer, claimants, their families and dependents alike stand to become beneficiaries of the RAF’s highest standard of care when the fund’s provincial and regional workforce set up a one-stop-shop at
the Masoyi Combined School. “Doors open at 08h00 sharp, but the public is welcome to begin queuing before then. The event forms part of the organisation’s award-winning ‘RAF on the road’ outreach programme, which travels to far-flung communities, interacting directly with those affected by the accident carnage on South Africa’s roads. During the event, eligible community members are invited to finalise their settlement offers, make claim enquiries, or finalise rehabilitation support,” said Dhlomo. He said RAF continues to deliver its world-class suite of services to community members despite the current system being unsustainable and unaffordable. “Unfortunately, funds acquired through the RAF fuel Levy are inadequate to settle all the claims timeously, resulting in a backlog. However, the Department of Transport’s proposed new compensation system, the Road Accident Benefit Scheme (RABS), is
expected to completely overhaul RAF’s current system once the RABS Bill’s legislative process is finalised and signed into law,” he added. Read More: What are my rights when I am injured in a motor vehicle accident? Dhlomo said claimants can expect a much more streamlined and improved service once RABS is implemented as it will address several problems, including extensive and costly litigation, prolonged claims finalisation and high administrative costs. He said compensation will be paid irrespective of who was at fault, while benefits will be defined and paid in a structured manner. Saturday’s event will be preceded by a Road Safety awareness workshop on Friday, February 22 at Phola Clinic during which the RAF will promote driving fatigue and highlight the dangers of unrestrained minors. Further information about RAF’s support may be obtained from RAF’s Mpumalanga Customer Service Centre at Canary Walk Mall, Shop No. 11, 8 Bester Street, Nelspruit. Alternatively, the Fund is easily accessible at 11 Hospital Service Centres situated throughout the province: Rob Ferreira
Hospital (Nelspruit); Tonga Hospital (Tonga); Standerton Hospital (Standerton); Witbank Hospital (Witbank); Evander
Hospital (Evander); Themba Hospital (White River/Kabokweni); Mapulaneng Hospital (Bushbuckridge); Ermelo Hospital (Ermelo); Piet Retief Hospital (Piet Retief); Mmametlhake Hospital (Mmamehlake); and KwaMhlanga Hospital (KwaMhlanga).