 MBOMBELA – Three men are on the loose after they attacked an elderly man at his home on the Uitkyk Road near Mabalel Lodge on Friday evening. The 63-year-old Anthony Beckett feared for his life as three men, who he estimates are aged between 35 and 40, stabbed him in his neck and hand, beat him and repeatedly threatened to kill him. ALSO READ: Hope for Desmond Molenaar after attack at Uitkyk-home A distraught Beckett told Lowvelder on Monday about the ordeal, which happened around 22:00. “I heard the dogs barking and shone some lights on the property to see if I could see anything. When I saw there was nothing I went back to bed, and not three minutes later the dogs started barking again,” Beckett said. He then shone a light on the other side of the property towards the main house, and saw three armed men standing by the kitchen. “I ran back into my room and picked up a pick handle. They repeatedly said, ‘Come out we want to talk to you’.” Beckett refused, then hit one of the suspects in the face through the window. Beckett by the tool shed that the suspects locked him up in. According to Nelspruit SAPS spokesman, Capt Zandile Gqawa, the suspects gained entrance to his room through a curtain that serves as a door. “The leader of the group then saw the garden fork outside and pinned me against the bed with it. I tried to fight back when the other one tried to stab me in the neck. The third one was used as a lookout,” Beckett said. The one suspect eventually managed to stab him in his neck and they dragged him from his room to the outside of the property, where they proceeded to kick and beat him. They asked him where the brush cutter was and he told them that it was closer to the main house of the property. According to Beckett, they then asked him to open the tool shed. “I could hear them talking about the tools. The one that I smacked asked the leader if they should not take the toolbox. The leader said something like ‘not now’. They then locked me in the tool shed after they took my wallet.” The small window Beckett crawled out of. The suspects proceeded to Beckett’s room where they stole his clasp knife, a Bluetooth speaker, his Kindle, three flashlights and clothes. “They also stole my favourite fishing hat. Why they had to do that, I cannot understand,” a perplexed Beckett told the newspaper. He added that they also found a box of wine in the fridge that they drank from. “They were making a lot of noise. I waited about 10 minutes after it stopped and then I managed to escape through the window.” He then contacted one of the other residents, Bossie Boshoff, who also lives on the property. Boshoff proceeded to call Albert Gryvenstein from Bossies Community Justice, who alerted the authorities. Both Gryvenstein and Gqawa confirmed that there were three suspects, who are still on the loose. Bloodstains on the floor. Beckett was taken to Rob Ferreira Hospital where he got stitches to his neck and hand. He returned to his home on Saturday morning. Beckett, who farms on the property, said he is not “going to lose my crop over a few stitches. I am going to sharpen up my security and my dogs now also sleep with me in the evening.” He said he is extremely afraid that they will come back, “but I have nowhere else
to go”. Anna-Marie van Niekerk, who was visiting Boshoff when he got the call, said she was shaken up by the whole ordeal. Beckett shows the injury on his shoulder. “We were having a braai outside not even an hour before the attack happened. It could just as easily have happened to us,” Van Niekerk said. ALSO READ: Four attacked on farm on the Uitkyk Road