 The Film and Publication Board (FPB) urges parents to be vigilant and closely monitor their children’s online activities, especially games downloaded on various App stores or from other online sources. It has come to our attention that the game, “Momo Challenge” is a form of cyberbullying targeting young children. It encourages self-harm and may even lead to suicide. The “Momo Challenge” appears as a scary image on online platforms with requests for the user to contact “Momo” on WhatsApp through one of several contact numbers. Reports claim that the character instructs children to complete challenges that they must keep secret or “Momo” will kill them.  FPB’s Acting Chief Executive Officer, Dr Maria Motebang said, “Our FPB online monitors conducted a search on legitimate and known App stores and were unable to find reference to the game.  However, there is a possibility that the game may be shared on a peer-to-peer basis. Parents and guardians are therefore urged to monitor their children’s devices and report such content on the FPB hotline number 0800 148 148 or www.fpbhotline.org.za”. Even though there are no confirmed incidents in South Africa, we urge parents to take note of the following tips below in keeping themselves or those in their care safe online: “We urge parents to ensure that they adhere to age restrictions as assigned by the FPB. Age appropriate content goes a long way towards protecting your young ones from premature exposure to content that causes them psychological and developmental harm,” Dr Motebang adds. A research study conducted with the University of South Africa in 2015 showed that children as young as 10 years old are being allowed to play games with an age restriction of 18 years, exposing them to gruesome and graphic violence as well as offensive language. Children participating in this focus group were asked to explain how these games made them feel, with some comments such as ‘I feel like fighting after playing the game and someone is irritating me’ and ‘In gaming you’re kind of in control of what happens to you personally it is scarier because what happens in a movie happens to everyone’ painting a telling picture of the effect of this immersive exposure.   So with the Momo challenge going around on the internet and Youtube Kids app, we've decided to follow advice and let our… Posted by Rialda Plotz de Vaal on Wednesday, 27 February 2019 