 MBOMBELA – It is any parent’s worst nightmare to have to bury their child. There is never a guarantee that the tragedy which played out at Hoërskool Driehoek on Friday will not happen, but the Lowveld’s public schools are doing everything in their power to prevent it. This was the sentiment of Ferdi Bijzet, chairman of Hoërskool Bergvlam’s SGB, on Monday. He expressed the school’s sympathy about the tragic events at Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark where a walkway collapsed. At the time of writing, four children had died. Many more were injured, and countless traumatised. READ MORE: Fourth learner confirmed dead in Vanderbijlpark bridge collapse Bijzet added that Bergvlam always prioritised the safety of its learners and staff. “That is why we do maintenance of buildings and facilities continuously. “Inspections are done often by the responsible personnel and parents on the SGB in charge of maintenance. Experts are called in as and when needed.” He added that the department’s contribution is very small and parents pay for maintenance through school fees. Hoërskool Nelspruit takes maintenance just as seriously. The school employs a full-time maintenance team which conducts continuous inspections and safety tests. They also use experts from outside the school. Louis van der Nest, SGB head, said the annual sum they receive from the department for maintenance is way too small, but the school spent a large part of its budget on maintenance. “We do it because it is important to us and our children’s safety is important to us. “When something breaks or needs attention, we fix it immediately,” he added. However, not all schools can afford it.  Adriaan van Tonder, CEO of Frontline SHEQ Solutions, a local occupational risk management company, said he has been warning the provincial Department of Education about the possible liability for 10 years. Nothing seems to be getting done about it, with children dying due to a lack of precautions at schools. City Press reported in February 2014 that the department was being sued for R13 million by the parents of two pupils injured at school premises in 2013, when a water tanker fell on the boy during break at Mjembeni Primary School. In 2007 the MEC was held liable when a 12-year-old boy was injured when a device exploded in his hand. This was blamed on teacher negligence. Also, a girl was burned by a chemical at Sandzile Primary School. “The bottom line is that the Department of Education must enforce hazard and risk management, and that a health and safety management system is implemented as required by the Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA),” Van Tonder said. On top of that, regular safety, health and environment (SHE) inspections must be done by the Department of Labour to prevent tragedies such as what transpired at Driehoek. “The government (DoL) inspect all sectors, such as small businesses, but not their own departments enough. They are facing millions worth in claims,” Van Tonder explained. ALSO READ: Gauteng Education MEC Lesufi shuts down Hoërskool Driehoek “The HOD is accountable under the Act as the CEO, but he or she cannot enforce all hazards and risks at every school. This then falls to the school principal, who can be considered the CEO of the school and has to take responsibility to manage all risks.” In terms of the law, each principal and SGB should comply with the Act and at least get an engineer to inspect any suspect structure at a school and report this to the Department of Education. “Incident prevention and hazard management at a school is not only a moral obligation, but a legal imperative towards compliance with the OHSA,” Van Tonder said. It is the duty of the MEC responsible for education, with her officials, to ensure that employees, pupils and students are safe and without risk at schools. “The obligation that we have towards learners, parents and employees regarding their safety at schools has propelled the ‘safety in schools programme’, with specific emphasis on drugs, violence and security issues, to the top of the priority list.” However, this does not demonstrate compliance with the OHSA, he said. “All persons entering the work site should be safe and without risk,” he pointed out, and internal policies and procedures cannot be a substitute for OHSA compliance.  “The safe working environment which needs to be created is seen under the Act as the minimum requirement for all employers. The rule of ‘reasonable practicability’ needs to be demonstrated by the CEO and the liabilities regarding the Act may also be directed towards other appointed persons under Section 16(2). “The Driehoek tragedy shows that we need to ask, ‘who is responsible?'” According to Van Tonder, there is only one solution, “Every school must implement a SHE management system where all hazards and risks are controlled, mitigated or eliminated. “The institution should identify all the hazards first and then prioritise their management by calculating the risk value of each. This can only be achieved or managed by implementing a structured management system. “We have discussed this urgent compliance matter with the education department in Mpumalanga on various occasions over the past 10 years with no success,” he added. “It is thus important that the Department of Labour should inspect the schools regarding their compliance with this Act and not the ‘safety programme’ on violence and drugs. There are certainly sufficient inspectors at the Department of Labour to ensure this,” Van Tonder said. The question is, will the department enforce compliance? “Every parent in South Africa sending his or her child to school expects those responsible to have all the necessary mechanisms in place to safeguard that child both educationally and also to create an environment where the child’s safety and that of the teacher is guaranteed, or at least being striven towards,” he concluded.