 BARBERTON -Taxi drivers barricaded the intersection that leads to Badplaas, Barberton and the R40 during a protest last Thursday. Several workers were affected on the day as no buses were allowed to pass. The protesters closed the roads by parking trucks across it. According to Moses Simelane, spokesman for Umjindi Barberton Taxi Association (UBTA), the closure of the road started after a driver of Top Star Association (TSA), which operates from Mbombela, assaulted one of their operators. He said last Monday this driver illegally entered Emjindini and was spotted by their drivers who stopped him. “After stopping him, they requested him to unload all the passengers as he was not permitted to operate in Emjindini. During that altercation, the TSA driver phoned his colleagues in Mbombela. And one of ours, who was transporting passengers to Mbombela, was kidnapped by Top Star drivers. He was assaulted,” said Maloli. He said later on, the TSA operators started illegally ferrying their passengers. Read More: Taxi-association disputes not yet resolved “There are two platforms at Mbombela taxi rank. The one we use is called Umjindi. The other one used by TSA is Barberton. The Umjindi platform takes passengers from Mbombela and delivers them in all sections in Emjindini. The one for Barberton is permitted to transport passengers from Mbombela to Barberton. They are not allowed to take passengers to Emjindini,” said Simelane. He said the situation has since been resolved. “Our passengers from Emjindini must know that the only taxi that will deliver them around the sections in Emjindini is the one that is at the Umjindi platform. The one at Barberton platform will only deliver them on the streets and they will have to fork out an extra R13 to catch a local taxi to take them home,” said Simelane. TSA chairman John Mavundla said it is not true that they assaulted any of the UBTA drivers. “The UBTA are the problematic ones. We have been working together for a long time. The issue started when they refused our drivers to deliver passengers in Emjindini. Later, they refused us to enter via General Street. They told us that we must use Sheba Road if we want to drop off passengers in Barberton. We are still negotiating with them and hopefully a decision that will benefit both associations will be found,” said Mavundla.