 WHITE RIVER – Who would have thought that a talent for playing golf may eventually result in an eye-opening insight into the world of rhino poaching? This unexpected connection becomes clear when talking to award-winning film-maker Susan Scott, producer of the documentary STROOP – Journey into the Rhino Horn War. During an interview after two sold-out screenings of the film at Casterbridge Cinema on Saturday, Susan recalls how longing for South Africa and its abundant wildlife influenced her change of career while studying on a golf scholarship in the USA. “Seeing images and footage of South African scenes intensified the longing for home, but also fuelled a desire to be part of conservation efforts.” There and then she decided to share her passion and love of the natural world with people on-screen, resulting in making National Geographic and Discovery/Animal Planet, documentary films. One thing led to another and while producing a story on the rhino poaching crisis, she realised that she needed to do even more. The opportunity came when she met well-known wildlife television presenter Bonné de Bod. Eventually they established a company together, and the result is pure dynamite. Together they have won numerous awards for their work, with STROOP harvesting new awards almost daily. De Bod and Scott self-funded most of the film. Apart from financial strain, staying objective was one of their challenges, they say. While De Bod asked the difficult questions that many South Africans should, interviewees tended to expect from them to take sides. And being human, sympathy with end users of the coveted rhino horn products was also present. “When a cancer patient tells you (as in the film) how she appreciates the precious gift given to her with love, you understand why she expects respect for that act from you,” De Bod said. “The sad part of the whole issue is that the end user of the product feels no connection with the animal itself.” This is a far cry from how De Bod herself feels about rhinos. And all other animals, for that matter. “Although I grew up in Johannesburg, we travelled to Kruger quite often. My love of the wild was heavily instilled by my beloved grandfather and it was with great sadness that I recently had to say goodbye to him.” Having been in his 90s, he died about two weeks ago. Encountering the harsh reality of the crime while on a poaching scene made the two women decide to quit their day jobs and put all their energy into a documentary without censorship or broadcast sensitivities, and show all the aspects surrounding the issue. For the past four years they ate, slept and lived STROOP. Asking about the Afrikaans name for an English documentary, they explained: “the word stroop in Afrikaans means poached but also stripped bare. So stripping the rhino, its being, its essence from what makes it a rhino.” The film is in Afrikaans, Shangaan, Vietnamese, Chinese and English, but with English subtitles throughout. The film gives an in-depth look at the world of rhino poaching. It takes the viewer from the Kruger National Park and Hluluwe iMfolozi in Kwa-Zulu Natal, with rangers, forensic teams on crime scenes, to court rooms where state prosecutors work against well-paid defence teams and a very slow justice system. It shows the plight of private rhino owners and follows the heartbreakingly sad journey of little orphans who have lost their mothers to poaching. Even the controversial topic of legal trade in rhino horn is addressed. But the most disturbing part is definitely when the viewer is taken to the underground backrooms of Vietnamese and Chinese smugglers and rhino horn users. Filming in a communist country like Vietnam brought its own challenges, since all forms of media are controlled. For them to capture the “illegal” actions, they had to act illegal themselves and take several safety measures, like booking one hotel but staying in another. The extent of the investigation unfortunately makes it a very long film. Scott and De Bod, however, say that a shortened version is planned, especially since the youth in schools in rural areas should see and consume the essence of it. For those who missed the local screenings, all is not lost. The DVD will be released on February 12 and can be ordered from their website: www.sdbfilms.com.