 Pretoria High Court acting judge, Nante Diedericks handed down the judgement even though Daniel claimed that the business could be rescued. Diedericks gave interested parties until July 11 to show cause as to why the order should not be made final.During the period between the granting of a provisional and final order, notice of the provisional order is given to the company, its employees, potential trade unions involved and SARS. On the return date, the court may place the company in final liquidation if there is no opposition to the granting of the order. The applicant, a Pretoria company called Altfund, loaned Mountain View Investments more than R800 000 in 2014. A High Court default judgement indicated that Mountain View owed Altfund more than R3 million by 2016. The liquidation application was brought last year. According to The Citizen, Daniel, who also owns Cradle of Life eco-tourism game reserve in Badplaas, applied to have his company placed under business rescue. Doing so successfully would have suspended the liquidation proceedings. However, the application had not been served on all interested parties, as the Companies Act of 2008 prescribes. Altfund’s legal team argued that the business rescue application was just another attempt to frustrate the debt payment Altfund was due. Bernard Barnard, Altfund’s managing director, stated in court papers that Daniel and his company launched one application after another in an attempt to delay the execution of the judgement. Lowvelder previously reported on controversial issues involving Daniel. In 2003, he blew the whistle on land claims fraud and claimed that government had been harassing him since. In 2017, Lowvelder reported that Daniel had obtained a protection order barring an MTPA official from harassing him. In 2018, Daniel obtained an interim protection order against deputy president David Mabuza.He accused Mabuza and the agency of harassing him and sabotaging Cradle of Life. Carolina Magistrate’s Court magistrate, Sarel Grabe presided over the case and eventually set aside the order. Last year, Daniel indicated that he would appeal Grabe’s decision.