 Soon to be launched in South Africa, the 2019 Mazda3 follows the Mazda6 as the second Mazda to achieve an overall five-star rating under the new, more stringent 2018 Euro NCAP crashworthiness ratings. The next generation 2019 Mazda3 performed impressively in all four Euro NCAP test categories – adult occupant, child occupant, vulnerable road user (pedestrian safety) and safety assist. This may be attributed to three key factors: the adoption of the very latest Skyactiv vehicle architecture, which features a high-rigidity, impact-absorbing yet lightweight body shell, an even wider range of advanced safety technologies to help drivers identify potential risks and reduce the likelihood of damage or injury, and enhanced pedestrian protection performance. ALSO READ: Mazda CX-3 releases interior and exterior updates With a truly outstanding 98% score in the adult occupant category, the all-new Mazda3 achieved maximum points for frontal full-width impact, and both car and pole side impacts. Mazda’s smart brake support system also gained full marks in low speed tests, with collisions avoided in all scenarios. An excellent child occupant score includes maximum points for child protection in the dynamic tests, with full marks for both frontal and lateral impact. Vulnerable road user (pedestrian safety) tests garnered maximum points for pedestrian leg and pelvis area protection. In addition, the safety assist category score pays tribute to efficiency of the next generation Mazda3’s comprehensive suite of safety features. Superior driving dynamics throughout the Mazda vehicle range are a vindication of the company’s painstaking Skyactiv technology programmes. They also contribute to the new Mazda3’s five-star Euro NCAP achievement, in the form of its linear, responsive and predictable acceleration, braking, handling and steering. By making the car easier to drive safely, such attributes further reduce the potential for accidents without compromising Mazda’s traditional
fun-to-drive character. ALSO READ: Mazda inspires the joy of driving in every vehicle