 A not-to-be missed event on the province’s social calendar is the annual Mpumalanga Show. This year, it will be hosted at the Mbombela Stadium from August 29 to September 1. Organisers have added a welcome twist to this year’s carnival-themed show with more than 300 exhibitors expected. Another exciting bit of news for valid ticket holders is the chance to win one of two brand-new Polo Vivo 1,4 hatchbacks. The show has teamed up with media powerhouses Lowvelder and RISE FM. The cars were presented at Mbombela Stadium on Tuesday. To enter, all you need to do is purchase a daily or weekend ticket to the show, be 18 years or older and have a valid driver’s licence. Present your entry ticket at the Lowveld Media or RISE FM stands and complete the entry form. ALSO READ: WATCH VIDEO: Mbombela vet and tattoo artist take a unique approach to helping dog Back Yolandé Calvert and Hanlie Lombaard. Front Colletha Noppe, Themba Sgudla, Buks Esterhuizen and Julia Burger. Only one entry per person is allowed and the final draw will be held on the main stage on August 31 at 16:00. The show promises a wide array of activities and things to see for both young and old. Although aimed at industry professionals in agriculture, forestry, wildlife, tourism, mining and energy, there is a myriad of attractions for families to enjoy. Motorsport enthusiasts have not been forgotten, and the Monster Truck shows will get the adrenalin pumping. There will be competitions galore with giveaways aplenty. Mpumalanga is a province with a rich, diverse history and the show will celebrate these differences through various traditional dance performances at the Standard Bank Cultural Village. ALSO READ: Mbombela municipal manager confirms his resignation

The live entertainment on offer caters to all, with a sokkie on Friday, an eclectic mix on Saturday and a gospel and jazz festival on Sunday. Do not pass up this opportunity to enjoy the family fun and the chance to possibly drive away in a stunning new car. To buy your ticket, visit www.thempushow.co.za, or call Hanlie Lombaard on 072-262-3319. You can also drop her an email at hanlie@mpushow.com for more information