 MBOMBELA – According to police spokesman Capt Zandile Gwaqa, Zander Kotze was allegedly assaulted at the golf course on Sunday at 20:00. She said his wife, Mienkie Kotze, had opened a criminal case. “The statement reads that there was an alteration with unknown people and they assaulted her husband with a blunt object on the back of his head. He was taken to hospital in a severe condition.” ALSO READ: Police arrest four after accidental shooting ER24 Emergency Services manager, Kim Habib confirmed that her team had responded to the scene. “We found the man at the scene. He had a severe head injury. He was rushed to hospital where he was stabilised.” Mediclinic Nelspruit spokesman, Robyn Baard confirmed that Kotze was in hospital in a critical but stable condition.
A reliable source close to the investigation stated that there was allegedly CCTV footage in the club which seemed to show that an argument broke out apparently between Zander Kotze and Stephen Earle, an attorney, over Mienkie. ALSO READ: Law enforces set to reappear in court “Zander and Earle and their friends went outside to the parking area where the argument allegedly continued. What is claimed to have happened was Zander was fighting with Earle and a friend intervened to help him. Zander apparently lunged for the friend who then allegedly punched him. Zander fell down and hit his head. At this stage in the investigation we are not sure if Zander fell down the steep steps or hit his head on an object in the parking lot, or if an object was used to hit him.” Mbombela Golf Club chief executive officer, Darren Plumb issued a statement regarding the incident. “You may have become aware of an unfortunate incident that took place at the club on Sunday that is making the rounds via social media. We wish to advise, that an incident of assault did take place in the car park of the club shortly after the club closed for trade. The incident was between four non-member patrons, who are known to one another, and has left one in a critical condition in hospital.” He said at this time, they could not provide more information as a criminal case had been opened which they were assisting the investigating officers to determine the events of that day. “The club cannot condone such behaviour and sees the incident in a serious light. Mbombela Golf Club is a peaceful, relaxing environment which provides a friendly, family-orientated setting and service to its members and the community of Mbombela,” he added. Bossies Community Justice’s Albert Gryvenstein said he was investigating the matter on behalf of the Kotze family, but could not comment any further at this time. Mienkie declined to comment and referred Lowvelder to her attorney, Pietman Lourens. Lourens said he was acting on behalf of Zander and was unable to comment while his client was in a coma. Earle said he was opening a case of attempted murder. His attorney could not comment at this stage and would give a statement later. Gwaqa said police were investigating a case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.