 The R37 Lydenburg/Mbombela road has now opened. It was closed on both lanes earlier this morning due to a protest action. Subcontractors and construction workers at the International Fresh Produce Market, still being built, blocked the road with trucks in protest after not getting paid on time.    The protesters had threatened they will keep the road closed until they are paid. The subcontractors said Mpumalanga Economic Growth Agency (MEGA) have not paid them for the past two months, and this followed after they said Liviero Civils (PTY) Ltd will no longer be responsible for payments. ALSO READ: Municipal manager’s resignation leaves a void in Mbombela According to one of the subcontractors, it is unfair considering that they were doing all of their work on the ground and MEGA undertook to be responsible for all the payments. This is not the first time that these workers closed the road demanding payment. According to the people on site, ENZA Construction (Pty) Ltd has also not paid yet, either.    MEGA appointed ENZA Construction (Pty) Ltd and their scope of work was to build the MIFPM top structures. The contractor, Liviero Civils (PTY) Ltd was appointed for the installation of civil engineering bulk services such as water, sewer and road networks. ALSO READ: VIDEO: Heart 2 Clean walk for Mandela Day Cllr Kenneth Mkhonto went to the road and negotiated with the workers. MEGA sent a representative to negotiate, however, he was dismissed since he did not have all the information regarding their concerns.    Mkhonto explained that he understood their plight, however, he suggested that they engage with MEGA. “I understand that you are unhappy due to lack of payment and the situations reached a point wherein you had to close the road to be heard. We need to consider the motorists and commuters on this road that need to get to work or school,” he explained. We have sent questions to the property division and communications at MEGA, but at the time of publishing had not yet received any response. 