 The Forester achieved the highest score ever tested by JNCAP, with 96,5 points scored. The 2018-2019 Grand Prix Award in JNCAP collision safety performance assessment marks the second winning of the award for Subaru, following the Grand Prix Award for Impreza and Subaru XV in the 2016-2017 assessment. Winning these safety awards reflects Subaru’s commitment to its all-around safety principle. Forester has also received the Advanced Safety Vehicle Triple Plus (ASV+++) rating, the highest rating in the 2018-2019 JNCAP preventive safety performance assessment. Additionally, both the the Subaru XV and Impreza models (Japanese market specifications) were awarded with the ASV+++ rating. All three models employ the Subaru Global Platform, a new common architecture used in Subaru vehicles to enhance passenger protection with improved energy absorption compared to the previous generation model. ALSO READ: A luxurious experience of a car Combined with the optimised body structure and proper layout of high-tensile steels, improved passenger protection for frontal, side and rear-end impacts with minimal weight increase is achieved. The application of Subaru’s unique “EyeSight” driver assist system which uses a pair of cameras for forward recognition to provide assist functions including pre-collision braking, pre-collision throttle management and lane keep assistance to support the driver, further strengthens the ability to prevent a crash completely. Further, the model trio features a pedestrian protection airbag as standard equipment for Japanese-spec models. A pressure sensor inside the front bumper determines whether the vehicle has collided with a pedestrian, and the airbag covers the wipers and the bottom of the front pillars right after the collision is detected to reduce the impact on the pedestrian’s head. With Subaru’s target of eliminating traffic accident deaths by 2030 including collisions between pedestrians and cyclists with Subaru vehicles, the continuous enhancements of its primary, active, passive and pre-crash safety technologies are being recognised the world over, with these latest awards bearing testament to Subaru’s credentials as the safest car brand in the world. ALSO READ: Driver tells his part of the Boskombuis story