 Update: July 22, 14:00 KOMATIPOORT – This morning friends identified the body found at the roadside near Hectorspruit on Saturday as that of Hennie de Beer, a resident of Machadodorp. Police confirmed the positive identification and stated that investigation into the circumstances surrounding his death is continuing. Friends last heard from the 55-year-old on Friday afternoon and friends got worried when they didn’t hear from him over the weekend. They heard about the grisly find in the Onderberg and contacted the police. Upon visiting the State Morgue at Tonga, they confirmed his identity to police. Another family from the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast also sent a representative to identify the body in the hope that it is the missing Hennie van der Merwe (60). According to the investigating officer, Capt Louis Stander, the family members also visited the morgue earlier today and confirmed that it was not Van der Merwe. Van der Merwe has been missing since July 1, when he was last seen at home in Sunwich Port by his fianceé. A missing persons case was opened at the Port Shepstone SAPS. The search continues for Van der Merwe and community members are urged to send the police any information that could help track him down. Original story: July 20, 13:00 HECTORSPRUIT – Pedestrians discovered the body of a white man, possibly in his late 40’s, next to the N4 road just passed the last houses of the Mjejane settlement, towards Komatipoort. He was found clad only in his underwear and one shoe and is balding, with short, grey hair on the sides of his head. READ: Hot-blooded stabbing leaves a brother dead and one arrested According to Const. Natacia Mbuyane, the station’s communications officer, he was found with injuries to his head and police suspect he was hit with a panga. An inquest has been opened and they are investigating the circumstances that led to his death. Community members who are aware of any missing person and could perhaps identify the body are urged to contact Capt Louis Stander of Komatipoort SAPS on 082-449-0242.