 The range of personality types within the motoring industry is dynamic and, well, most interesting. And one thing that life has taught me is that, be the economic climate what it may, managing people requires the most skill and finesse. I always allow new appointees time to settle in before I set up an interview. Now, although our conversation on the phone was brief and in English, her accent said: Afrikaans! First impressions: delightful, passionate and competent! Kim Januarie was appointed the DP at Mazda in Mbombela some four months ago. “I quite like it,” she chirped when I asked about her and Mbombela. “Still not quite there yet, but I have my mind set on ensuring that the Nelspartans warm up to the best alternative premium brand in the country.” Now, I love her description of the Mazda brand. Since its divorce from Ford, the brand has most certainly upped its business profile and, most importantly, the range of its products. And just by the way, I will be driving the new Mazda 3 in early August, so watch this space. ALSO READ: Mazda3 receives five-star rating After completing matric, Kim studied engineering and then worked in the engineering medical field. In 2012, realising that she had reached the ceiling, she joined the Barlow Group as a trainee in vehicle sales. You heard me. Yes, right at the bottom of the ladder – again. It is called chutzpah! In 2014 she was appointed the sales manager; and in 2015 she moved into the DP position at Mazda in Bruma. Although she also considered becoming a radiologist (better believe it), she realised that doctoring can be high maintenance. Fortunately, throughout her time moving through workshops, parts and the rest, in terms of her training in the motoring industry, never once did she regret her decision to join the industry. “I love it, I love the people, the interaction, the dynamic challenges everyday, sharing the joy of delivering a new car, and supporting staff to grow and develop their full potential. “The Internet has changed business models and people have become much more knowledgeable. So, one of my intentions is to teach staff to also become more Internet-savvy and employ it as an effective marketing tool.” And she should know – she qualifies as a generation-X exponent. Oh dear – now I have given away her age!”As an introvert, being with and among people 24/7 does take its toll. To relax, I go horse riding, I gym and I spend time with family,” she said. I conclude. Kim is about to change your perception – not just about the Mazda brand, but also about a young woman being a dealer principal. So watch out! ALSO READ: Mazda CX-3 releases interior and exterior updates