 MBOMBELA – As of July 1, property rates, as well as the cost of electricity, water and refuse removal, have increased. These bills are to arrive at customers’ homes early next month. Some residents say this was not communicated well, especially the 12 per cent increase by Silulumanzi. The City of Mbombela council approved the increases during the previous council meeting. Property rates increased by six per cent. Last year there was no percentage increase as the entire valuation roll was adjusted. The areas provided with water directly by the municipality will pay 5,9 per cent more for their water and sewage. The entire municipality will pay the same increase for their refuse removal. This is a smaller increase than last year’s 6,44 per cent. The big one, however, is the increase by Silulumanzi: 12 per cent for water and sanitation (last year this increase totalled 7,43 per cent). Electricity tariffs increased by 13,07 per cent – as opposed to last year’s 7,82 per cent. This, however, is due to the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) allowing Eskom to adjust their prices accordingly. READ MORE: Moody’s sounds warning bells for SA after Eskom bailout It is sure to break the bank. Thea Rix, who administers the local Mbombela Electricity & Water Information Facebook group, called the increases “astronomical”. “I feel it wasn’t communicated. We knew it was going to happen, but they don’t indicate the sliding scales (different prices consumers pay for different usage levels).” Rix added that people’s water meters were typically read before the end of the month, so your next bill will be for the end of June and beginning of July. “When we receive July’s bill in August, people are going to make a noise. The next month will be even worse, as that will be completely calculated on the increased rates.” ALSO READ: Residents angry after spike in water bills Richmond Jele, spokesman for Silulumanzi, explained that the increase was due to their own increased inset costs. “Everything is becoming more expensive: electricity, duel and chemicals.” He added that customers were notified of the increases on their previous bills. Linda Grimbeek, chief operating officer at the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT), pointed out that Silulumanzi’s water was of great quality compared to other areas. “I think the City did their calculations with consumers’ pockets in mind. Silulumanzi’s is very high in these poor economic times.” She added that it may encourage people to save water. “We have very little water and little is done to get people to adhere to restrictions. Let’s challenge households to keep their water usage withing the free (6Kl) per month. At the minimum, let us each save 12 per cent of water. “Then our bills will remain the same and we achieve the purpose of saving water, which we have to do anyway,” she concluded. ALSO SEE: Missing Barberton teen found safe and unharmed