 Mbombela’s swimming sensation, Brooklyn Croxon, represented South Africa at the Pesaro and Treviso swim cups in Italy on June 28 and 29. The freestyle specialist has, by her own admission, exceeded her own expectations, winning four gold medals and one bronze medal. She achieved this feat by earning two gold medals in the 50-metre and 100-metre freestyle competition. She added two more gold medals in the 50-metre and 100-metre freestyle event in the second competition. The teenager entered the 200-metre freestyle race and earned a bronze medal in this event. She was elated at the prospect of performing so well against international swimmers, saying, “It was an honour to represent my country at both the Pesaro and Treviso swimming competitions. I was very privileged to be selected to be on the team and compete against Italy’s best swimmers. Brooklyn Croxon flew the flag high in Italy. ALSO READ: Stand a chance to win one of two cars at this year’s Mpumalanga Show

“I was not expecting to place at these galas. I had only one aim, which was to bring down my times as much as possible.” She added that her achievements at both competitions have motivated her to continue working hard to take her swimming career to the next level. Her coach, Jasper Venter, could not contain his excitement. “She did extremely well and I am happy that the long hours in the swimming pool are paying off.” The freestyle specialist said that her strict exercise regimen paid off. ALSO READ: Mbombela municipal manager confirms his resignation

The youngster follows a strict exercise regimen, under the watchful eye of Venter, who encourages her to stay in shape as she makes waves. For Brooklyn, walking onto the podium to receive her medals was an indication that the many laps she covered during training were worth it. “When I received my medals, I felt an overwhelming sense of accomplishment. In that moment I realised that all my hard work, training twice a day, had finally paid off.” Travelling to a different country has exposed her to the different ways in which international swimmers prepare for swim meets and the stiff competition in the sport. ALSO READ: Citybug hosts a Power Challenge to help school

“Being able to see Italy and its culture was an experience I’ll never forget. It taught me more about their different ways of competing and training for big events,” she concluded. Prior to her departure to Italy, the Croxon family hosted a golf day to raise funds to cover her travelling and accommodation costs. Her grandfather, Dave, expressed his gratitude for the overwhelming support from fellow Mbombelans, whose generous contributions made the trip possible.