 MASOYI – Police arrested the 25-year-old suspected mass murderer, Julius Thabiso Mndawe, on July 3 after he confessed to the killing of Tokkie Tlaka (24), Banele Khoza (15), Noxolo Mdluli (20), Nomthandazo Mdluli (18) and Felicia Shabangu (17). The five women were allegedly raped and buried in shallow graves. The community expressed their anger outside the court and demanded justice for the family members of the murdered victims. The 15-year old, Banele Khoza’s body was found in the garden of the accused on Friday. “We last saw her with our sister’s boyfriend, also known as the accused,” Lindiwe Nkuna said. It was alleged that the police knew who the killer was, even after the victim was reported missing in January 2017. ALSO READ:St Peters School, Mbombela principal dismissed following contractual dispute Nomthandazo Mdluli, a 18-year-old grade 10 student, allegedly went to collect her phone from the accused, where she was apparently raped and suffocated. The family were informed on Saturday that the victim’s body had been found in Mndawe’s house, under the floor. The mother of the 20-year old victim, Noxolo Mdluli, who was reported missing during February 2017, conveyed to Lowvelder her appalling encounter with the police. She was advised that although the accused was known to them, they could do nothing, as they did not have irrefutable proof of the alleged murder, rape and concealment of the body. “She never answered her phone, although it still worked until August 2017.” ALSO READ:Vantage Goldfields line up new investors after high court decision The family members each allege,that vital information was furnished to the Masoyi police station when they reported the girls missing, but immediate assistance was not forthcoming. According to the provincial police spokesperson, “If the family members for the victims did approach the Masoyi police station and received no assistance, it is a cause for concern and I will look into it,” Col Mtsholi Bhembe said. The family members are in agreement that justice would be best served if a life sentence could be handed down to the accused during trial and that no bail should be granted to the alleged serial killer. Mndawe was remanded in custody until July 19 for a formal bail application.