 MBOMBELA –  Mpumalanga Show 2019 will be bigger and better than before. Previous crowd favourites have been retained, but exciting new additions to the show promise to absolutely awe those in attendance. General manager Jacques Malan is leading the charge to ensure that the one-ofa-kind show achieves even greater success. The Mpumalanga Show is unique to the province. It showcases the best of Mpumalanga with special emphasis on agriculture, forestry, wildlife, tourism and mining. All provincial departments in collaboration with their public entities and stakeholders participate to showcase best practices and promote development and sustainability. This year’s theme is “Carnival”. It will feature exhibition stalls, various breeds of animals and livestock, cultural aspect integration, various competitions and live music entertainment. Read More: Bigger and better Mpumalanga Show awaits New additions include miniature horses. There will also be birds of prey, a snake park, a crocodile dunking tank and goat milking to educate the little ones while they are being entertained. The Mpumalanga Show’s slogan of “Unity through diversity” will come alive at the Standard Bank Cultural Village where traditional dance groups representing the diverse cultural groups of the country will perform. Another new addition is Monster Truck shows. If you need any more reason not to miss out, favourites from last year such as a variety of competitions, workshops, info sessions and product demonstrations will return to the show. Also Read: The Mpumalanga Show is here The Mpumalanga Show is also for the entire family to enjoy, do and see together. Look forward to a carnival atmosphere, and no shortage of entertainment for young and old. The organisers expect to top the 40 000 people who attended last year. The live entertainment will have a “local is lekker” theme on Thursday, a sokkie on Friday, a diverse mix on Saturday, and a gospel and jazz festival on the Sunday. Save the date and watch this space for further details closer to the time. The Mpumalanga Show takes place from August 29 to September 1 at Mbombela Stadium. Book your stall in advance by contacting Lyzelle at lyzelle@thempushow.co.za or 079-657-1995. For more information, visit www.thempushow.co.za