 MBOMBELA –  According to police spokesman Col Mtsholi Bhembe the man was arrested on Tuesday after police in Low’s Creek stopped a grey Toyota Avanza  which was travelling towards Kaapmuiden.  This occurred during an operation conducted on the R38 road. ALSO READ: Teenaged boy stabbed to death outside Barberton Secondary School “They proceeded to search the vehicle, which had six passengers and amongst them, one was carrying a bag containing 15 metres of blue and six metres of green explosives. He was arrested on the spot, hence his appearance today.” Meanwhile, three men aged between 28 and 34 were arrested on Monday in Delmas, for an alleged business robbery and are also appearing today in the Delmas Magistrate’s Court.  Information at police disposal revealed that the men stormed into a shop and ambushed the employees.  One of the staff members recognised one the men who was involved in a previous robbery that took place at the same store in May.” ALSO READ: Diamond’s short tenure produces positive results Bhembe said as the staff memberwas about to press the panic button, another suspect armed with a firearm was already behind her at the counter. The suspects then took an undisclosed amount of cash and a bag of cellphones before fleeing the scene in a silver Toyota Etios with a Gauteng registration.  Delmas police were notified and quickly responded to the information received and spotted the vehicle at a T-junction along the R555 road, headed to Sundra. “A chase ensued between the suspects and the police until the Etios was stopped by Sundra police who were alerted about the incident. “Four suspects tried to escape but three were arrested, but one managed to escape.   A 9mm firearm with the serial number filed off was recovered under the passenger’s seat together with the cellphones and cash. A probe revealed that the firearm was stolen at a security company in Johannesburg.” The fourth suspect is still at large, anyone with information is urged to contact W O Jacque Snook at 072-479-1408 or call the Crime Stop number 08600-10111.