 Lizel du Preez and the Wikreate team are buzzing left, right and centre to introduce you to interesting new products, gadgets and vehicle-related services that you might have missed. Yes, we know, this is probably due to your plate being as full as ours. Nevertheless, the team will have everything in place on July 27 and 28 at Riverside Mall at the Autodealer Motor Show Mbombela 2019. If you have not yet booked your space, get in contact. The larger-than-life and always popular Hi-Q Nelspruit will entertain you with tyres and competitions galore. And, as you well know, Garry Friend always has an ace up his sleeve, but then, we are not about to let the cat out of the bag. ALSO READ: Activities abound at the Nelspruit Motor Show The Produkta Motor Group will present Ford, Mazda, Honda, and of course the latest product in its stable – the iconic Jeep. The new generation of the Jeep Wrangler, JL, was named 2019 4×4 of the Year by the expert readers and journalists of the specialist French 4×4 Magazine. Mahindra will display its latest XUV 300 offering. The XUV 300 is a mini SUV with a big heart and sports all the bells and whistles. Haval Motors will have a full range of products on display and is keen to sign many offers to purchase right there at the show. I think you will be suitably impressed with the H2 and the Steed bakkies. For outdoor enthusiasts, Opposite Lock and Rudamans will be displaying a range of products, including adventure trailers and more. And although we don’t have a Harley dealership in Mbombela anymore, the Gauteng dealership will be in attendance. Performance specialist HMD, with Martin van der Merwe, is keen to introduce you to Eagle Eye tuning technology and many performance products. And, as you may or may not know, Martin and his team are keen drag racing enthusiasts, so there is an encyclopedia of performance knowledge waiting to be shared. It has also been confirmed that the Mr and Miss Mbombela Teen competition will take place at the motor show on Saturday. Rike the sax player will entertain visitors on Friday night. William Blackrose and Mona-Lee Gerber will be performing in the beer tent on Saturday night and here, entrance is free to the public. So watch this space. Enquiries: Lizel on 082-451-8158 or lizel@wikreate.co.za. ALSO READ: GALLERY: Yearly Huey landing at Crossing