 HECTORSPRUIT – Residents, land owners and other stakeholders packed the hall at the Disaster Management Centre in Hectorspruit for a two-and-a-half hour meeting with the mining company and their consultants on Sunday morning. The meeting quickly dissolved into chaos when Philip Mkhatshwa from Manzolwandle Investments, the mining company that applied for the mining rights, introduced himself and starting talking about job creation. Elliot Ngwenya of ASEM Mining, who is assisting Singo Consultants. Read More: Despair marks the lives of former mineworkers This resulted in attendees starting to shout questions at him, unhappy that it sounded like he was just spouting political rhetoric to placate the masses. After the room had been calmed somewhat, it was decided to do the question and answer session first, instead of a presentation on the proposed project and the progress of the specialist studies. Attendees could then start their barrage of questions, ranging from availability of water (which is currently scarce) to the potentially huge negative environmental and economic impacts. Many of their questions could not be answered as some of the studies and applications were still being done, according to Kenneth Singo of Singo Consulting. Kenneth Singo of Singo Consultants, who are conducting the various studies needed for the mining application. Complaints that due processes were not followed, flaring tempers and many attendees feeling like the company had not come prepared, resulted in about a half of the attendees leaving roughly halfway through the meeting. Those remaining requested that the consultants proceed with their presentation. Singo explained that an application had been made for mining rights on almost 18 000 hectares of land stretching from Marloth Park to South of the N4, close to the Mananga Road, Komatipoort and the Crocodile River. Their plan is to use only about 20 hectares for an open cast mine with two incline shafts, the offices and related buildings and about 13 000 hectares for underground mining as coal seams had been found at a depth of 120 to 150 metres. They propose that the open cast mine be located on the Tecklenburg’s Ranch 548 JU Portion, which is located about 10 kilometers from Hectorspruit, in the Coopersdal/Strydomblok area. Also Read: Operation returns at Barberton Mines According to the consultants, the proposed mining area is not a sensitive area and contains only bush. Singo said that the company was currently gathering data for their report to the Department of Mineral Resources, who would grant or refuse their application. All concerns received from affected parties would be included. An application for water rights is also being done simultaneously, as it usually takes around 300 days for the process and requires regular studies on, amongst others, seasonal water availability. The next meeting with stakeholders and interested parties is set to be held in August to report on the progress of the process.