 Yes, this is exactly what I did over the weekend of June 28. And my thoughts are still, from time to time, occupied by the experience and the overawing technology involved. More so, because of the car’s astounding 0-100 km/h in 4,8 seconds capacity. And sadly, not a single opportunity to bruise a GTi-owner’s ego. But then – that was probably for the better, too. I am, of course, referring to the Jaguar I-Pace. The all-electric one, that is. I read with interest that, for the first time ever in March this year, 58 per cent of all cars sold in Norway were electric.  This despite Norway’s huge oil reserves. And now I am thinking. Back at the advent of digital cameras, everyone said, “Nah, film will still be around for at least 20 years,” – this was in the early days. But then, by the time everyone blinked for the second time, film was gone. ALSO READ: Revolutionary technology by Jaguar Land Rover It is resurfacing, though – like all good things tend to do. The fact is, the Jaguar I-Pace electric’s price tag is not for sissies – nearly R1,7 million – it is at this time a niche product for a niche market.  The technology will become more affordable and I suspect it will happen sooner rather than later. Driving a 100 per cent all-electric (battery-driven) car, does require a mind shift on many levels though – or perhaps not? It most certainly looks like one. The I-Pace represents eight years of design, innovation and engineering and once you have driven this car, you may well agree with Jaguar’s sentiment that “We do not predict the future, we create it”.  The I-Pace’s design conceals its interior elegance, sophistication and mostly, I think, its practical and ergonomic cabin layout. I will also agree that this car may well be one of the world’s smartest and well-connected fi ve-seaters on four wheels. The test vehicle was white and strategically striped with a soft green which I thought complimented the subtle and smooth sculpted design of the shoulder line and the rest of the car.  Its coupé-like roof design adds to its low drag-co-efficient of just 0,29 cd. The front light cluster design synchronises well with that at the rear. The large grille and smaller lower air dam design renders the front end slim, but still compelling in gunning for your attention. The rear end is uncomplicated and the wide stance and twin exhaust outlets creates the impression, and may I say, expectation, that it has been built for performance of note – if you were to explore and push the envelope. The overall design, in my mind, is difficult to classify.  ALSO READ: Jaguar I-PACE cleans up at the World Car Awards Is it a SUV? Hatch? Sedan? Coupé? What do you think? The short conclusion though is that it is utterly beautiful and intriguing on many levels. But, I am not about to put on my philosopher’s cap to explore this, because I need to tell you about the technology that drives this phenomenal car. The I-Pace is available in three spec levels: S, SE and HSE.  First off – the seats are some of the most comfortable and supportive I have experienced in a long time. The cab-forward design – allowed because there is no need for engine space in the front – brought the seats forward thus creating more legroom in the back. The design of the front seats in combination with the design of the steering wheel creates a cocoon which focuses the driver’s attention and involvement and allows one to become an integral part of the whole driving experience within this handcrafted office space.  This is further enhanced, of course, by the quietness within the cabin. This enhances the already brilliant sound quality of the Meridian sound system. There is no engine noise – no awesome exhaust note and exterior noise from the road surface has been dampened as much as is humanly possible. In fact, it is so quiet that you can hear the sound of the disc brakes when you apply braking. It is quite eerie…  The panoramic roof floods the cabin with natural light while still keeping the nasties at bay and not ruining the interior and quite exquisite lighting. The I-Pace’s InControl technology, with Pro Connect and Touch Pro Duo, makes it one of the most connected cars in the business. At the heart of this is the 10” touch screen integrated into the dashboard and it is 5” with multi-function dials. In front of the driver one finds the interactive high-definition driver display, which can and does present the driver with tons of driving, entertainment, navigation, media and active safety data.  Mind-boggling actually! You can also create a 4G Wi-Fi Hotspot connection (standard) through the InControl system. And yes – you will have to read the manual should you wish to explore and use all these features to their full potential. You can also pre-set the interior environment via your Touch Pro Duo system or even your smartphone app. The I-Pace features two lightweight synchronous permanent magnet electric motors. Both offer about a 97 per cent efficient power transfer from battery to motor.  Jaguar suggests that, with the internal combustion engine, this power transfer is typically between 30 to 40 per cent. These motors are axle-mounted and use what is referred to as concentric single speed transmissions. As you can imagine, on the one hand this configuration provides a near perfect centre of gravity and on the other, renders extra space to be utilised for either interior or luggage space. I call it the perfect compromise! With no gear changes and energy or momentum loss often associated with gear changes, you have instantaneous access to just about 100 per cent of whatever power is available every time you put your foot down.  ALSO READ: This exclusive Jaguar has arrived in SA And let me tell you, this is push-back-in-the-seat stuff. It is quite an exhilarating phenomenon considering that it all happens “quietly” as there is no exhaust note to get the adrenaline going. You just have to focus and ensure that the wheels are pointed in the right direction. I will also always remember the reaction of the car guards when I drove into or out of parking areas: “Hauw – she is quiet – no man!” The 90 kWh battery is designed for longevity (carries an eight-year or 160 000km warranty) and sustained power.  The battery can be charged or topped up whenever required – you can even charge in the rain. Yes, it is quite amazing. When using the Timed Charge facility via either the Touchscreen or the Jaguar app on your phone, you can set specific charge times and so perhaps benefit from off-peak tariffs, if available. When you use a public charging station, charging is activated by either swiping or tapping a card in the appropriate slot on the station. And there is a whole network of these already in place throughout the country. Mbombela has three stations: i’langa and Riverside malls, and of course the dealership.  On long trips a DC rapid charger – a 50kW charger, can deliver a 270km range charge in one hour. The I-Pace is designed and equipped to accept a 60kw DC charge rate. At home you can install the Jaguar wall box (R35 000) that will charge the battery overnight. One can use the standard domestic socket, although charging time will be longer.  A full charge can be achieved within 45 minutes to an hour and, as per Jaguar spec, this should provide you with a 400+ km range. Be mindful though that, as with fuel, if you have a heavy right foot, you will use more power and thus have less range. The I-Pace comes with a host of safety features: dynamic stability control, electronic traction control, motor drag torque control, roll-back protection, emergency brake assist, ABS, EBD and more.  I have already alluded to this and it will suffice to say: it does what every Jaguar does best – it sticks to the tar and tight corners like tack. Steering is precise it is comfortable, confident and stylish, it will shame the GTis, and it offers various optional extras should you require it.  It has surprised many at the recent Simola Hillclimb event in Knysna and, well, it is just a truly remarkable car on all levels and in every single department. I have driven the future and loved it! Will you? ALSO READ: Jaguar Land Rover decides to build electric cars in UK