 MBOMBELA – Following the shock announcement of City of Mbombela Local Municipality manager Neil Diamond’s resignation last week, executive mayor Cllr Sibusiso Mathonsi described his departure as a “big loss for the city”. Diamond’s resignation was tabled to council on Friday. His last day at work will be August 30. Mathonsi told Lowvelder afterwards that Diamond was a big asset to the municipality. “We had previously discussed his intent to resign from the municipality as far back as three to four months ago, because his family had settled in the United States,” he said. “The municipal manager went for extended periods without seeing his family and the toll this was taking on him became telling.” The mayor explained that Diamond felt that his attention was divided as a result of his family’s absence. He was lauded for the municipality’s transformation.
“Since his arrival from Cogta before his appointment, the municipal manager was responsible for the city’s financial turnaround and stability. He and the chief financial officer brought their skills to the fore which is the reason he was appointed for a full term.”

ALSO READ: Mbombela municipal manager confirms his resignation Outgoing municipal manager, Neil Diamond and Mbombela local municipality spokesman, Joseph Ngala. According to the mayor, there is no replacement on the cards as yet, because Diamond’s resignation was rejected on three to four occasions previously. “This is not something we anticipated would happen so soon. We had hoped he would serve out the remainder of his term before resigning. All successful cities retain their strategic appointments over the long term. He was part of building a solid team and we hoped that he would change his mind.” The mayor continued to say that Diamond was taking considerable strain, which had to be taken into consideration, before the municipality finally relented to accept his resignation. The municipality spokesman, Joseph Ngala said that Diamond was an invaluable asset to the city and that his departure would leave a void. ALSO READ: Update: Body identified as man from Machadodorp Mbombela municipality executive mayor Sibusiso Mathonsi. Speaker Sipho Mawela echoed these sentiments. DA councillor Sanley van der Merwe said, “From our side, we believe that it comes at a crucial point for the municipality. It is just under two years from financial recovery and is certainly a setback for the municipality.” She went on to say that Diamond was open, transparent and honest and she believed that resigning was not an easy decision to take. “Any decisions taken now could have a very big impact on the progress made thus far. Since his appointment two years ago and the financial mess we were in then, we are starting to see progress. Whoever takes over will have to have the same ability, capability and the capacity to keep the momentum going.” She concluded by saying that it was a pleasure working with him and extended her best wishes for his future.