 MBOMBELA – Drugs are increasingly influential in the city centre, according to a ten-year drug squad veteran at the Nelspruit Police Station. He heads a drug unit whose reach stretches as far as White River. The flow of illicit drugs into the province is comprised of three components, which involve the packaging, transportation and distribution of substances like “cat”, “lolly”, dagga and heroin. With up to seven arrests daily for drug users and two for kingpins involved in the seedy underworld of distributing drugs to addicts, the drug unit head has his hands full trying to clear Mbombela’s streets of illegal contraband. He said that the influx of foreign nationals across our borders contributes hugely to the growing problem, citing recent reports of massive drug hauls intercepted on our roads after having passed through the ports of entry unreported and undetected. “One of the biggest concerns is that we intercept drug smugglers on the South African side of the border, which points to collusion between border security officials and the smugglers,” he said. Confusion still exists about the new dagga bill. ALSO READ: Get ready for a monster edition of the #Mpumalanga Show.

Statistics provided from November 2010 to date indicate that the trade has grown from primarily supplying dagga to including heroin, tik, rocks, lolly, “magic mushrooms” and khat. The tenacious anti-drug unit head said that there should be more co-operation between the Department of Home Affairs, law enforcement agencies and the courts to nip the increasing traffic of drugs into the city in the bud. “Mbombela needs a dedicated court manned by staff specifically trained in the narcotics trade and how the various components like foreigners with questionable documentation are able to wantonly deal in drugs and how drug users commit crimes to pay for their next fix. “Remember, drugs destroy families and addicts engage in crimes of opportunity like petty theft, theft out of motor vehicles and housebreaking to support their habits.” Dagga is still the drug of choice among in Mbombela. ALSO READ: Local economy ravaged by copper thieves He was quick to dispel any misunderstandings about the new dagga law, adding that it is clear: the cultivation and consumption of the drug for personal use in the user’s personal space is legal. However, if the drug is discovered on your person outside of your home, police can effect an arrest for possession. While the debate rages on about what constitutes personal use when it comes to dagga, other more dangerous drugs make their way across our borders. Many of these have dangerous side effects, and users often experience psychotic episodes, placing the lives of those they are in contact with in danger. He mentioned that addicts experiencing this were prone to inflicting violent attacks, rape and murder on their victims. ALSO READ: Boekverhaal omskep in ‘n uitmuntende radioproduksie A “snatch” of rocks. “Anderson and Brown streets in the city centre have been identified as hot spots, where dealing in illicit substances is rife. The former is comprised mainly of Nigerian nationals while the latter street is controlled by Tanzanians.” The decorated police officer, whose office walls are lined with certificates attesting to his dedication to the fight against drugs and their abuse, added that he could not stress enough the importance of co-operation between the Department of Home Affairs, SAPS and border officials in stemming the tide of drugs infiltrating our borders. “In many instances, the people responsible for bringing contraband into the country are illegal immigrants who do not have the valid documentation to be within our borders. A scary number of them in possession of these documents obtain them illegally, and the need is there to ensure we all work together to keep them out of our borders.”