 MBOMBELA – Ernest Hector Dirk Valster will live long in the hearts and minds of those whose lives he touched. According to his son, Peter, Ernest had an altruistic nature and always sought to lend a hand where he could. The much-loved local optometrist sadly passed away on June 23 and was laid to rest on Sunday. Peter said, “He never restricted his services to Mbombela, and had clinics as far as Barberton, Lydenburg, Malalane, Komatipoort and the Swaziland Mhlume Clinic. “He volunteered his services to the Rotary Club of Nelspruit, the Nelspruit Lions Club and many other charity organisations. He was not limited to charity work, but also to the safety of the entire Mbombela community as a member of the army reservists, Nelspruit Commandos.” Ernest Valster, Nelspruit 1963. ALSO READ: Nature reserves now open after week-long strike ends Born in Berea, Johannesburg on April 7, 1938, Ernest moved to Nelspruit in September 1964, quickly establishing himself as the optometrist to visit. Peter said his father opened his door to all and sundry and did not turn anyone away. “If you did not have finances to afford the needed spectacles, he believed in the old barter system, trading in anything from vegetables to vehicle spares and maintenance for a pair of glasses.” He was described by his family as an ardent photographer and his son spoke of his father’s penchant for the outdoors. “My father had a great love of nature, and spent many weekends in the Kruger National Park, indulging his passion for photography with an old Pentax camera,” he said. Ernest and his daughter, Karen. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Annatjie Myburgh accused guilty of murder

Ernest forged many bonds in the community which he grew to love and loved him in return, cultivating many friendships with a smile tugging at the corners of his mouth. “He will be fondly remembered by his colleagues in the army reserves as ‘Uncle Ernie’, as he always ensured that the men had something to eat during a patrol.” A very dynamic and multi-faceted person, Ernest spent much of his free time with other pursuits such as rally driving, flying, ballroom dancing, sailing and playing the violin. Peter added that his father had a vast general knowledge and could provide advice on just about any topic. His love of helping people in need was never more apparent than when he refused to close his practice on his retirement. A visit to his consulting rooms would inevitably start with a long conversation, which earned him many friends. Ernest deserves legendary status as a Lowveld pioneer and is survived by five children, seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Kaylee Badenhorst, Ernest Valster and Candice Badenhorst. ALSO READ: View Gallery: SOPA 2019 in pictures

He was a family-oriented person who chose to spend much of his time in their company. He did not shy away from taking photographs with his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, who will no doubt look at the pictures and remember him with fondness. “He will be greatly missed by his family, friends and colleagues. He was a pillar of the Mbombela community,” said Peter.