 Julius Malema, the leader of the EFF, did not disappoint when he delivered his speech at the party’s sixth birthday this weekend.    The party chose KaNyamazane Stadium as the venue for its national celebrations on Saturday, to also acknowledge that the party is now the official opposition in the Mpumalanga Legislature. The ever-controversial Malema spared nobody in his speech. ALSO READ: Man reported missing after car breaks down He thanked the people of Mpumalanga for making the EFF the second largest party in the province during the general elections, saying residents “have seen the light”. Malema also appreciated Collen Sedibe, the provincial chairman, saying he is the most hard-working chairman “in the whole world”.    He added that while the province of Mpumalanga is rotten, it is not because the people are so. “It is rotten because it is led by the political party called ANC. Mpumalanga produced the deputy president called DD Mabuza and it is in this province where schools are collapsing, it is in this province where children are still falling in the pit toilet, it is in this province where our people still do not have clinics and they suffer illnesses. “Our people in this province, as long as they are not in the ANC, not in the group of DD, they do not get jobs. For our children to work in this province they must be supporters of DD Mabuza.    ALSO READ: Elukwatini men march against crime “We are in a province where people are killed for tenders and no one gets arrested. Tenders are given to the friends of the politically connected and when they are exposed nothing happens.” Malema pointed out that during the recent audit results from the Auditor-General (AG), only one of the 21 municipalities in the province received a clean audit. “If you do not know how corruption looks like go and look at the AG report of the municipalities here in Mpumalanga. The rest are run by the DD farm and they do not follow procedure, they do not have a clean audit because they follow illegal instructions. I speak to you now as the municipal manager in Mbombela is resigning because they are refusing to carry out illegal instructions,” he said.    Malema also touched on the issue of the three miners’ bodies who are still trapped underground at Lily Mine.
He set his sights on issues outside of Mpumalanga, adding that public enterprises minister, Pravin Gordhan needs to go. He listed a number of others who have vacated their positions after the EFF called for their removal.    The party has not said as yet that President Cyril Ramaphosa must go, but Malema added, “We have not said that and I am not saying that today. But I am saying to him, listen to the loud whispers otherwise you will follow your predecessor and go and look after cattle in Venda. Ri do vha rumela hayani (We will send you home), if you are not careful, Ramaphosa,” he said. The cake for the EFF sixth birthday was donated to Mpumalanga Christian Network Home of Vulnerable Children.