 The resulting week’s racing was the subject of further cancellations, as the weather pelted down with rain and mist. Finally, the re-organised race schedule came into play with as many as five TT races being held in just one day as the conditions improved. With all the constant delays, big festival days out at Honda’s Peel Day and the Ramsey Sprint were once again put out of business by the ACU.   Race organisers limiting drivers to around 2 laps on tyre wear and marginal-sized race bike tank capacities have changed the TT from its former glory days to a weather watcher’s wonderland. ALSO READ: Historic saloons muscle up as they race for glory Not to say that the racing was not once again spectacular. Just seconds decided the close-run events that combined to show scintillating race speeds and record-breaking riders winning laps of the 33-mile mountain course. Peter Hickman was out of the blocks quickly in the RL360 Superstock TT Race. It was shortened to three laps to fit into the packed five-race schedule. Hickman’s fast start saw him at Glen Helen 1,68 seconds faster than second-placed Dean Harrison, who had an advantage of 1,582 seconds.  Hickman consolidated his position on the run out to Ramsey, once more showing his total mastery of the mountain section of the course with a 9,026 second lead over Dean Harrison as they entered the pits. Peter Hickman took a comfortable win, with a cushion of 26,045 seconds over Harrison. There was drama even before the Sidecar TT Race 2 got underway on Thursday’s packed schedule, as newcomer sensations Ryan and Callum Crowe were forced to withdraw due to a fire on their machine minutes before the start. The Birchell brothers, Ben (driver) and Tom, got the tap on the shoulder at 14:00 to take the plunge down Bray Hill for the first time in the shortened two-lap race.  The win puts the Birchalls level on sidecar wins with Rob Fisher, with only David Molyneux having more sidecar wins to his name. With Derek McGee out of contention following a spill at Greeba in qualifying, there was no number one on the starting line for the postponed Bennetts Lightweight TT Race. Lap record holder, Michael Dunlop on a second Paton, started in his customary #6 position. As the clock ticked over, eyes were turned up Glencrutchery Road to see whether Coward could overhaul the 18-time TT winner.  In the end, it was not to be. Michael Dunlop took the chequered flag as the first bike on the road and then commenced a tense wait for Coward to cross the line. At Cronk-ny-Mona, the gap was only 0,767 seconds. Out to Glen Helen on lap one of the two-lap race, the leader was Michael Dunlop, looking to repeat his 2018 race victory. Peter Hickman (Smiths Racing BMW) claimed his first victory at the Isle of Man TT Races, fuelled by Monster Energy, when he took a sensational RL360 Superstock race by 4,4 seconds from Michael Dunlop (MD Racing BMW) with Dean Harrison (Silicone Engineering Kawasaki) in third. Double Duke Road Race Rankings champion, Dean Harrison secured the most coveted accolade in road racing by winning the blue-ribbon race of the 2019 Isle of Man TT Races, the Senior TT, on the Silicone Engineering Racing Kawasaki Superbike.  The popular Bradford rider also took three-second places and a fourth during a very trying TT period. Highest mover, Peter Hickman amassed three victories, the Superbike, Supersport 2 and Superstock TT’s, as well as the second in the Senior, third in Supersport 1 and eighth in the Lightweight, 2013 Duke Champion, Michael Dunlop both took the Lightweight TT honours on the Paton. ALSO READ: Vroom, vroom… Lowvelders, we’re off to the races