 MBOMBELA – For the first time ever monster trucks are coming to the Mpumalanga Show. Now in its third year, Mpumalanga Show 2019 promises to be bigger and better than ever, and what better way to demonstrate this than with monster trucks? These a specialised trucks feature heavy duty suspension, four-wheel steering, and oversized tires. They are purpose-built vehicles with tube-frame chassis and fiberglass bodies rather than metal, and promise entertainment like you have never seen before. Mpumalanga Show’s ethos is “Unity through diversity”, and this year’s theme is “Carnival”. This will come alive at the Standard Bank Cultural Village where traditional dance groups, representing the diverse cultural groups of the country, will perform. The monster trucks are a first for the show. ALSO READ: Local economy ravaged by copper thieves The annual show celebrates the province’s heritage and once again creates opportunities to benefit individuals, stakeholders and Mpumalanga as a whole, by showcasing the best of the province with special emphasis on agriculture, forestry, wildlife, tourism and mining. As always it will feature exhibition stalls, various breeds of animals and livestock, cultural aspect integration, competitions, workshops, info sessions, product demonstrations and live music entertainment. This will include Juanita du Plessis, Kurt Darren, DJ Ossewa, Lira, Khaya Mthethwa and Rebecca Malope. There are also a number of new additions to Mpumalanga Show 2019, including miniature horses and donkeys, birds of prey, a snake park, a crocodile dunking tank and goat milking to educate the little ones while they are being entertained. ALSO READ: Boekverhaal omskep in ‘n uitmuntende radioproduksie The Mpumalanga Show is also for the entire family to enjoy, see and do together. Get ready to have a monster of a time at Mpumalanga Show 2019. It takes place from August 29 to September 1 at the Mbombela Stadium. Book your stall in advance by contacting Lyzelle at lyzelle@thempushow.co.za or on 079-657-1995. Tickets are available from webtickets and PnP outlets. For more information, visit thempushow.co.za