 Mandela Day 2019 presented Halls with another opportunity to positively impact the local communities
surrounding the Halls Mataffin farm in Mbombela. Betty’s Haven orphanage gets home back for Mandela Day
As part of Halls’ ongoing commitment to Corporate Social Investment, this year teams from Halls and
Halls Properties came out in numbers to dedicate 67 minutes of their service to different projects in and
around the Mataffin and Phumulani communities. The two day event was filled with fun, sweat and joy
as Halls employees touched the hearts of over 1 600 people.  Day one of the event which took place on July 18, saw the Halls Properties team dedicating
their time to the elderly of the Phumulani Village Association beneficiaries. This event took place at
Buhle Home Base Care Centre in Phumulani. The day was filled with excitement and laughter as the
team handed out tracksuits and t-shirts, had an exercise session and prepared a braai for lunch to the elderly from this community.  Speaking at the event, Glory Mkhonza, the chief human resources officer and public sector liaison of
Halls Properties, explained how appreciative the elderly were. “We saw this as a good initiative to
celebrate this day with Halls retired employees, seeing how welcoming and appreciative they were, we
will surely be going back again next year.”  Day two of the event, which took place on the July 19, saw the Halls team coming out in full
force from different departments across the business to dedicate their service to eight projects in and around
Mataffin and Phumulani. Good Work Foundation to open fifth digital learning campus The 8 projects that benefited this year are:
1. Woodhouse Community Centre
The establishment of a food garden in an effort to provide a steady source of fresh vegetables
to 150 people.
The preparation of a shade netting and mounting of toilet seats for safety.
2. Mbombela drop in Centre
The preparation of a shelter for 61 kids in order to provide a safe roof under their heads.
3. John Mdluli Primary School
The establishment of a paving and filling the playground with sand to make play time more fun and safe for over 200 learners in the foundation phase.
4. Cyril Clarke Secondary School
The establishment of a food garden in an effort to provide a steady source of fresh vegetables for 1059 learners that attend the school.
5. Little busy Edu-care
Painting the interior and exterior of the building with a fresh coat of paint and preparation of murals for the two classrooms to make learning more fun and colorful for the 48 little ones.
6. Sakha Sive Crèche
The preparation of a soup kitchen for lunch to feed over 48 children and the staff members.
7. Buhle Home Based Care and
8. Home of Joy Crèche
The establishment of a small food garden and preparation of a soup kitchen for lunch to feed 79 kids at Home of Joy and the 62 elderly members of the community. Improved playgrounds put smiles on many faces Each year the Halls teams find it gratifying to give from their hearts and this year was no different.
Halls’ ongoing support of our local communities is integral to the way we do business, making a real difference to those in need around us.