 It has since become a biannual event with teams travelling from Pretoria to Cape Town over a period of
eight days. The first international team entered the competition in 2010. It was the Tokai Solar Team from Tokai University in Japan which won this event. In 2012 Sasol became the title sponsor. Its involvement also brought about a route change, which presented participants with more challenges. Tokai Solar won it again. In 2014 and with more changes to the route, the Nuon Solar Team, from Delft University in the Netherlands, claimed the win. In the 2016 Sasol Solar Challenge tight competition eventually saw Nuon Solar Car Team from Delft University claim their second win. ALSO READ: Two SA schools send their brightest minds to the global Technology Challenge In 2018 Sasol Solar Challenge celebrated its 10th anniversary. What will be in store for the 2020 Solar Challenge happening from September 11 to 19? Well, for one, a team from Mbombela has decided to build a car and enter the challenge. Solar cars can enter the 2020 challenge in one of four classes, each with different rules and objectives. Challenger Class: Cars entered into this category are newly built, four-wheel, single-seaters and are built for maximum energy efficiency and endurance. Adventure Class: Cars entered into this category have participated in previous editions of the race and may include three-wheelers and vehicles with solar arrays that are larger than required for the Challenger Class. Cruiser Class: Cars entered into this class are designed to be practical for everyday use and normally include four seats and a storage compartment. “I thought we should enter in the Adventure Class, as it offers an entry-level opportunity for those with a tight budget,” said Johan Verster. Johan has been involved with the local eV Challenge for high schools for the past few years. Another proponent and enthusiastic eV Challenge organiser, Klasie Botha, can hardly contain his excitement for this project. The team has not, as yet, decided on a name as this may well be linked to a sponsor, which of course they do not yet have. So here is an opportunity. Should you wish to become involved, contact Klasie on 083-310-7317. ALSO READ: Pupils and business teams spark at eV Challenge