 BARBERTON – The Van Heerden family were left destitute on Monday after a blaze engulfed their home, destroying everything in its path. Hannelie van Heerden said her daughter, Jaunita Wilkins, and her grandson, Keanen Wilkins, were at home during the fire. “The fire was caused by a faulty plug in the living room, which set all the furniture alight before the flames reached the ceiling. “My daughter and grandson were in the house at the time and were lucky to escape with their lives.” Van Heerden was at work in Mbombela at the time and prayed that her daughter and grandson would be spared, as they were trapped in the house. The family were left with nothing but the clothes on their backs. ALSO READ: Police arrest four after accidental shooting

Her other daughter, Angelique van Greunen, told Lowvelder, “The power tripped in the house and Janine went to put it back on a few times before sparks started emitting from a wall plug in the lounge.
“It started spreading rapidly, but thankfully Jaunita and Keanen managed to escape unhurt.” She added that the fire destroyed everything and the family were left with only the clothes on their backs. “All I had left were the clothes I wore to work and my handbag.” This is the third time tragedy has struck the family in just as many weeks. According to Van Greunen, they buried Van Heerden’s mother-in-law four weeks ago and her mother this past Saturday. The blaze swept through the house, destroying everything in its path. ALSO READ: ‘Enough is enough,’ says Barberton Mines boss “My mother-in-law’s furniture, which was also stored in the home, was burned to cinders. The house was completely destroyed. All that was left standing were the four walls.” The Barberton community came out in support of the family and a good Samaritan provided accommodation, while others provided much-needed items to see the family through the tragedy. Van Heerden appeals to the community to assist with donations of electric appliances, size five to six shoes and clothing and toys for her grandson. Community members who are keen to help this family as they start the journey of rebuilding their lives may contact Van Heerden on 076-918-0285 to make a donation.