 Ever since I drove the Amarok just after its release, I held the opinion that both interior and exterior design is elegant (for a bakkie) and also a tad understated – subdued even. It is a seriously large vehicle and I am not about to compare it with other bakkies. Fact is, when one sits inside the cabin, one’s experience of the space certainly renders it larger than any other.  It also offers, despite the size and ground clearance, much more of a car-like driving experience than any of the competition and yes, I know, I have driven all of them. With the focus on horizontal and vertical lines in the interior, the design is ergonomic and pronounced. Not in your face, though. And despite this, or perhaps exactly because of it, the interior offers a calm, dressed-down and elegant environment. ALSO READ: EXPERIENCING THE SPIRIT OF AMAROK From the easy-to-read instruments to the touch screen and the satellite controls on the steering, everything is in the right place. The sound system, sporting six speakers, can be controlled via the infotainment screen. There is the AppConnect facility, SD, USB, and AUX ports.  There is a voice enhancement function which ensures clear in-car communication via your mobile phone. The seats are large, supportive and comfortable and surrounded by many storage places within arm’s length. Although there is a padded armrest between the front seats, it just did not provide the support for my left arm I preferred. VW should perhaps consider installing a sliding and extendable cover. The exterior design again, is bold and bullish but not as intimidating as that of the competition and this, in my mind, is an attractive feature of the Amarok.  I am not sure whether this was a conscious decision by the VW engineers and designers. I mean, it was VW that started the trend of kitting bakkies with smaller 2-litre, but higher output engines. Something which just about everybody queried at the time. And yes, they can now rightly say: “Look at us, we did it, it works!” The cargo bed can handle a Euro pallet transversely loaded. There are a number of lashing rings for securing your load. Its half-metre platform gate height boosts its loading capacity. The ladder frame, typical of many bakkies, offers impressive torsional rigidity also as a result of its closed longitudinal beam profiles and additional transverse beams.  It sounds as impressive as it performs under stress and in challenging offroad conditions. The performance of the Amarok bakkies used in the Spirit of Africa, for one, has proven its durability, as has its engines. There are twin front and side airbags to start with. Special sensors at the front and the side of the body control protective devices inclusive of staggering impact in case of an emergency or accident. The automatic post-collision braking system is linked with ESC, as is electronic trailer stabilisation. Hill descent and offroad ABS is available and although I did not take this V6 off-road – I had done with the previous models I tested – I have no doubt about its off-road prowess and capacity.  And just by the way – do not be fooled by the Amarok’s lack of a conventional low-range feature. This bakkie does not scare easily and you will be pleasantly surprised – maybe even converted – by its seamless performance during slow 4×4 driving. The 3.0-litre V6 delivers 165kW and 550Nm. This engine was first used in the Audi A6 and A7 in 2014. The power is distributed to the wheels via a smooth eight-speed automatic transmission with permanent 4MOTION capacity. With overboost, the 165kW is increased to 180kW and 580Nm – this for just ten seconds. But don’t underestimate the power or excitement of the latter.  It is adrenaline generating nevertheless, especially when overtaking, and it makes for an exciting driving experience. The interior is quiet and although its on-road behaviour is still bakkielike, it offers a larger-than-life road presence and comfortable driving experience. My fuel index for our weekend drive, which, on the Sunday, took us on a round trip to Dullstroom, indicated 9,8L/100km on open roads and 12,8L/100km for town driving. In the Amarok, and in particular this V6, you have the perfect executive bakkie. You can go from the opera house to extract any other bakkie that finds itself in a compromising situation and still go home with a clean pair of shoes. I did say it is an executive bakkie ALSO READ: Supervan sets the pace for the Spirit of Amarok