 Du Plessis who started in the motoring trade in 2004 and who, through hard work and dedication in a challenging environment managed to reach the dealer principal position in 2014, received the Audi Avus Dealer Principal Award in Category 2. Briedenhann received the Novulari Sales Manager Award also in Category 2. “I have been pursuing this awards for a long time,” said Briedenhann who joined Audi Mbombela in 2009. “Market conditions are seriously challenging and buyers have become instalment sensitive. So to stay ahead of the curve and the averages, we need to constantly design attractive finance packages and products to stay at the forefront of what we as a dealership and Audi as a brand, do. I have my mind set on becoming a dealer principal one day. I love the Audi brand; it fits me like a second skin. I made a conscious choice a long time ago that I will stick with the brand no matter what the challenges are. And with the amazing support from the group’s management team, this is precisely where I will end up.” Briedenhann also boasts pre-owned and international certification on new vehicle sales.”For me personally, its not an award achieved by the efforts of one person. ALSO READ: Audi voted SA’s favourite in local survey It is achieved by having the right people in the right positions doing the right things more often than not. We strive to deliver acceptable results, tailored to fit the individual. At times this is challenging. The expectations are high, but we still get things done,” said Du Plessis.  “It also helps being part of a world-class brand. Audi will launch some truly exciting products over the next few months – products which exude a sporty and youthful character and which will support our efforts to further increase our footprint and already excellent market share in Mpumalanga. The new Q8 for one, has certainly set a new benchmark for Audi. “The local investment in customer convenience and work creation has always been the vision. It’s not just about the initial sale. Our aftersale care is vibrant, immediate and sprightly as it gets. We would like to thank our loyal customers, shareholders and colleagues for the important role they play in this achievement,” Adele concluded. ALSO READ: Put on your tie, take your briefcase and get on board