 BARBERTON –  This is after the municipality issued them with letters of final demand, ordering that they pay their debts within 14 days. The residents living in the former hostels claim that they are being overcharged by the municipality, and held responsible for debts incurred by former residents of their units. All the letters of final demand are addressed to 1974 Tuck Shop Hostel. Read More: Municipal strike causes a stink in Barberton town The units are home to more than 100 residents, who are each billed individually for water, electricity and rent even where they share units. The result is a chaotic billing system which they want fixed. The final demand notices partially read: “It has come to our attention that your municipal services account was not paid by the due date. This is a final demand for payment of the outstanding balance at the treasury service. Please react to this demand within 14 days by paying at the municipal cashiers or by contacting the treasury services to discuss the matter. If you fail to comply with the above, CMLM will regrettably be obliged to terminate/ lower the level of services to your premises and to debit the relevant charges against your account.” Lindokuhle Mangokoane, one of the community leaders, says they first demand clarity over the “Tuck Shop” terminology written on the tariff payment demands. Many of us occupying the units inherited historical debts. We wish to make it clear that the state of ownership is not well administered. We demand formal registration for every resident occupying residences here.” Mangokoane added that the historical debt could not be recovered by victimising them. “These letters of demands have been issued without consultation with the residents,” he said. Read More: “There has also been improper and poor dissemination of the final payment demands statements. The municipality must understand that we are obedient in paying the arrears, but due to our very low income levels and high state of unemployment, we can’t pay it once off,” added Mangokoane. Joseph Ngala, CMLM spokesman, confirmed that they are aware of the letters, as they were duly issued by the municipality. The residents were issued with reminders as is done to all account holders of the city. The property in question (family units) is registered as one stand, which was subsequently sub-divided into family units, hence it still reflects that original name of the property (Tuck Shop Hostel),” said Ngala. During their march to the Umjindi offices, the residents handed their memorandum of demands to the ward councillor of Ward 41, Cllr Mongezi Nkosi, MMC for finance in CMLM, and Cllr Elizabeth Gecelo-Mkhabela and Amos Kumba, who are the regional service centre coordinators for the CMLM. The protestors gave council 14 days to respond to their demands.