 All commercial shows present one with opportunities, not just to watch technology and the rest, but also the most innovative animal of them all – Homo sapiens! It is in the way they walk, shoot selfies, eat their pregos and laugh out loud at the silliest of stuff. Yes, you will find all of this and more at the 2019 Autodealer Motorshow. The update from the show’s organisers, Wikreate, indicates that Riverside Mall will be abuzz on July 27 and 28. ALSO READ: Get revved up for the Autodealer Motor Show 2019 CK Customs will be on show. In fact, they will be handing over a fully customised 1958 Chev Apache to its owner. Bet he will be absolutely delighted. Subaru will impress with the latest XV, Forester and WRX. Produkta will bring Honda, Suzuki and their latest pride and joy – the Jeep brand. Project4WD promised to make you see with eyes wide open. Yes, they are into big things! Hi-Q will be present and on Friday at 18:00, they, in partnership with Goodyear, will also hand over a brand-new Tiguan to the lucky winner of a recent national competition run by these two well-known brands. Rike on her saxophone will entertain visitors on Friday night. So I guess the beer tent will be pretty crowded, which means you had better come early. The organisers of the local eV Challenge (electric vehicle challenge for schools) will, like in 2018, operate a short circuit where visiting children can, at a small fee, drive around the track. See an enlarged version of the program here.  The money collected will support the development of this project at local schools. In 2018 Nick Ings auctioned his beard in aid of this initiative and collected a whopping R2 000 in the process. Any volunteers out there for 2019? The show will this year also have a kiddies area next to the eV track. Hopefully this will help to burn some of that youthful energy to give mom and dad some breathing space to inspect those stands for their new vroom-vroom. The Saturday programme will host various beauty competitions and live performances by William Blackrose and Mona-Lee Gerber.  For both amateur and professional food snackers of samosas, prawns, tortillas, hot wings, burgers, pizza cones and fish bites, to name but a few, there will be plenty on offer, so bring plenty of cash, because your taste buds will not be able to resist temptation. There is much more – including what we told you about in the previous edition. Lizel and the Wikreate team never stops. But then, this is life, so expect the unexpected!
Enquiries: Lizel on 082-451-8158.