 MARLOTH PARK – Opposition to the application to mine just under 18 000 hectares for coal gained momentum this week as well-known attorney Richard Spoor has agreed to assist interested and affected parties. The move follows a chaotic and largely unsatisfactory meeting with the applicants, Manzolwandle Investments, and consultants, Singo Consulting, on Sunday, as well as a business chamber meeting regarding mining procedures and pitfalls last Thursday afternoon. READ: Stakeholders oppose new mine proposal strongly A group of representatives concerned about the impact the mine will have on the area consulted with Spoor on Tuesday on the way forward. He was instructed to request the application documents that were submitted to the Department of Energy. According to the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT), who is also acting on behalf of their members, “the content of the document will provide direction on how to go forward and address some of the immediate concerns, like where will the funding and water come from, what is the rehabilitation plan and so on.” During Sunday’s meeting, AfriForum district coordinator, Hennie Bekker also stated that the organisation would oppose the mining application, in light of the possible negative effects on agriculture in the area. Agricultural interest group Saai has also registered as an interested party to oppose the development. In a statement, CEO Francois Rossouw said the target area mostly featured irrigation farms in export industries. Rossouw also mentioned that high-intensity farming, which employs a large number of workers, is much more sustainable than the planned mine. “Initial calculations indicate that a one-off yield at a stripping ratio similar to other anthracite mines in the Vryheid formation north of Swaziland will not be viable. Moreover, the land will be left barren and dead for centuries to come. “This one-off yield, as well as damage to the water table, ecology and tourism, should be weighed up against the current agricultural activities in the area, which can yield a growing income of more than R100 000 per hectare per year after deductions for an indefinite time,” he explained. An independent mining consultant also informed Saai that the quantity of water needed to mine anthracite and sell it as a viable product will “significantly lower the water tables of adjacent farms and affect irrigation farmers as far as 300 kilometres along the river”. Rossouw also mentioned that the dust generated by open-pit mines will negatively impact crop fertilisation in the area. READ: Safety is Barberton Mines’ utmost priority The group of local interested and affected parties aim to challenge the mining application to see if the relevant legal requirements were met. This will range from whether there is an evidenced feed for the mine and its feasibility, to whether the pre-screening and public participation process was done correctly. The application will also be technically challenged. The group aims to involve experts in various fields to inspect the various reports contained in the application and give their comments. Experts who would like to assist with this process are encouraged to contact Cindy Benson at mpra.cindy@gmail.com and CC Jan Engelbrecht at jan@mindmatters.co.za , as well as Linda Grimbeek of the KLCBT at linda@klcbt.co.za. 