 MBOMBELA – A person with a body mass index (BMI) of 30 or more may suffer from related illnesses that can lead to decreased productivity. Low productivity or absenteeism costs South Africa R109 billion each year. A popular measure of obesity is BMI, a person’s weight in kilograms divided by the square of his or her height in metres. A person with a BMI of 25 is considered overweight and of 30 or more is generally considered obese. ALSO READ : A life well lived at Lowvelder as a journalist Obesity is considered a paramount risk factor in the contraction of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer. It is now considered a prevalent problem in low- and middle-income countries, like South Africa, who according to a recently published Global Wellness Index scored poorly for life expectancy. According to the World Health Organization, cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are the number one cause of death. A contributing factor to CVDs are unhealthy diets, alcohol abuse and an inactive lifestyle. South Africa is currently the only country in the region to have a tax on sugary drinks in an attempt by government and the Department of Health to curb South Africa’s soaring obesity rates. ALSO READ : Local tourism industry calls for action The head of wellness at Vitality stated that almost 70 per cent of South African women and 31 per cent of men are obese or overweight. The Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi has set an ambitious target to reduce obesity prevalence by 10 per cent by 2020 in his strategy for the prevention and control of obesity in South Africa, an initiative by the South African Department of Health (DoH). ALSO READ : Stepfather sentenced to seven years for various sex offense charges The DoH strategy 2015-2020 will create a framework and coordinate structures that will guide the strategy. This will include adequate access to healthy foods, to create an environment where physical activity is encouraged, obesity prevention and education programmes to be implemented during early childhood and to constantly monitor and evaluate the strategies implemented. ALSO READ : Elukwatini men march against crime