 BARBERTON – His death has left his family, friends, relatives and the community of Emjindini at large, deeply shocked. “Mgulumbashe,” as Comfort was affectionately known among his peers, passed away at Mediclinic Nelspruit on Friday July 12. He was initially admitted on June 29. According to his brother, the family has been left shocked by his death, insisting that even though he spent much of his time in and out of hospital, he was getting better. Read More:Mbombela to stop wasting money He described him as a courageous man with whom many people were privileged to interact, in his many different and courageous guises. A father and a political mentor to many younger generation leaders of the ANC and its leagues. He was straight-talking, speaking in a very honest and truthful manner. He was not afraid to share his opinion on a subject. He was morally strong enough not to be persuaded to do something which was wrong. An incorruptible individual,” Welcome described him. At the time of his passing, Comfort was no longer working. He had served in the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) as a general manager for public safety since it was established by the amalgamation of Mbombela Local Municipality and Umjindi Local Municipality on August 3, 2016. Also Read: Robert Gumede set to invest billions into Mbombela development He had taken the non-renewal/termination of his contract with the CMLM to the CCMA. They were in arbitration at the time of his death. Joseph Ngala, CMLM spokesman on behalf of the executive mayor Cllr Sibusio Mathonsi, said the council was saddened by the sudden passing of its former employee. We pay homage to a true gentleman and a visionary in the sector of delivering this critical service to our people,” said Ngala. His long-time friend and colleague, Dr Derrick Ndlovu, who currently serves as general manager of regional service centre coordination in the CMLM, said it was heartbreaking to learn of the passing of his friend. He was a devoted manager who wanted the job to be done with perfection. A punctual and God-fearing manager. He was a man of integrity and he dearly loved his family. He loved the ANC and Orlando Pirates,” said Ndlovu. Comfort is survived by his wife Thandiwe, his six children Siphiwosethu, Lizo, Mkhuseli, Nala, Bandile, and Khulani and one grandchild, Cebelihle, his three sisters, Sibongile, Zizwe, Khanyisile, and his brother Welcome. He will be laid to rest on Saturday at Graveville Cemetery in Emjindini from 08:00. His body will leave his home at Dikbaas Avenue at 07:30 for the hall. The service will start at 08:00 and the cortège will then proceed to the cemetery at 10:00.