 MBOMBELA – Benedict Ndlovu, or “Smiley” as he has been nicknamed by motorists travelling to and from work in the city, was all smiles last Thursday. He was selected to be the beneficiary of the goodwill of Lowveld Media’s regional manager, Buks Esterhuizen and Emnotweni Casino director of operations and complex general manager, Adam MacIntyre. They took up Ndlovu’s post along Mostert Street for Mandela Day. The pair initially started out selling flowers to passing motorists, but opted to start handing them out freely instead. This gesture was warmly welcomed by Ndlovu, who took time out to relax and enjoy a meal courtesy of Esterhuizen and MacIntyre. Adam MacIntyre doing his bit for Mandela Day. ALSO READ: Municipal manager’s resignation leaves a void in Mbombela Ndlovu flashed his now famous smile as the duo took to the streets and distributed the flowers. In a matter of minutes, not a single one remained, but Ndlovu could rest assured in the knowledge that he would receive the proceeds of their endeavour. Their stint as flower sellers was in recognition of former president Nelson Mandela’ sacrifice for South Africa and is commemorated by donating time to a worthy cause, or helping those in need, for 67 minutes on July 18. Ndlovu was overjoyed. He said, “This means so much to me. Now I am able to take a break and relax while enjoying the lovely food. “This job is an extremely demanding one and some days are harder than others when sales are down. It means so much to me to be recognised in this way.” Benedict “Smiley” Ndlovu. ALSO READ: Elderly couple robbed at shopping centre in Mbombela It does not end there though; Esterhuizen and MacIntyre noticed that the flower seller appears to suffer from an eye condition and have vowed to raise the funds necessary to ensure that he receives treatment. The gesture received a thumbs-up from social media users who applauded the two for giving Ndlovu a much-needed break. Dumisani Nkosi commented on Facebook: “A true Madiba spirit. Highlight of the day. Thank you guys.” Another user, Bethuel Mashinini, said: “Well done, guys for letting him rest while pushing his business at the four-way next to my workplace. He is a very good uncle who greets you from morning until late.”