 Bossies Community Justice (BCJ) continue to prove that they can always be relied upon – not only by the public, but also their fellow crime-fighters. A case in point was early last month, when things took a harrowing turn for an ACS security guard on patrol along the N4 on June 6.
According to ACS Security’s senior public relations manager, John Meintjies, the incident occurred between 02:00 and 02:30. “The guard was busy patrolling the road and stopped at the N4 construction workers’ campsite close to the Sudwala Caves. “Eight men, one of whom was armed with a nine-millimetres pistol and another who carried a panga, attacked the security guard.” A panga was recovered from the scene. Meintjies said the attackers stormed in and immediately started searching the hapless security guard for any signs of a firearm. They took his cellphone, two-way radio and started beating him viciously. ALSO READ: Afterwards, they tied the victim to one of the trucks parked at the site while they proceeded to load expensive roadwork equipment and engine parts onto a trailer. Meintjies said, “The last time I checked, the value of the stolen equipment came close to about R700 000.” The gang tried to start the trucks and hooked the trailer to a truck before fleeing the scene. The security guard sustained a concussion and 13 stitches to the head. “He was admitted to hospital and discharged after three to four days.” Attempts to locate the trailer, which was fitted with a tracking device, did not succeed and Meintjies said it appeared as though the gang tried to disconnect the device. The robbers ransacked the storage container. ALSO READ: “The last signal we were able to track was in Pienaar, so we contacted BCJ’s Albert Gryvenstein, who was coincidentally in the area with law-enforcement officials.” Gryvenstein got in touch with a source and tracked the stolen trailer to a house in Pienaar. “When we reached the house where the goods were kept, the suspect fled. “An arrest is imminent as he is known to police,” he said. The security guard sustained serious injuries during the attack. An ardent crime-fighter, Gryvenstein’s detective skills involve the tracking, following up on cases and cultivating sources to provide information which helps with the recovery of stolen goods and the apprehension of suspects implicated in the commission of crimes.