 With today’s red carpet premiere of Sony Pictures’ highly-anticipated Men in Black: International comes the world debut of the Lexus QZ 618 Galactic Enforcer jet – the first in the brand’s new jet-class fleet. Currently available only to MIB agents, it is powered by hybrid transformer technology. With the push of a button it morphs from a 2020 Lexus RC F sport coupe into the most powerful IFO (Identified Flying Object) ever engineered by Lexus. It is also the only Lexus available in the darkest black in the entire universe: Umbra Black. “The Lexus jet reflects the future of the Lexus brand – the far, far distant future,” said Lisa Materazzo, vice president of Lexus marketing. ALSO READ: Lexus luxury coupe proves to be visionary “With the most advanced alien-fighting technology, performance and sophisticated styling, it’s in a class of its own.” In a top-secret exchange of knowledge with an alien partner, brokered by “the agency”, Lexus was able to secure Quasar Power Source Technology (QPST) that uses the power of the nearest Active Galactic Nucleus to travel anywhere in the universe in seconds. Quasi-Stellar Objects are found in every galaxy that has a central supermassive black hole. So, all QPST-powered Lexus vehicles are named after black holes. Key jet features include everything you need to protect the earth from the scum of the universe.  Lexus vehicles are the official fleet of Men in Black agents globally in the film. The 2020 Lexus RC F stars as the Men in Black agents’ vehicle of choice for their high velocity pursuits. The luxury sport coupé recently underwent an exciting change, making it faster, lighter and even more ready to transport the Men in Black as they save the universe. “The Lexus RC F sports coupé and QZ 618 Galactic Enforcer jet provide the perfect vehicles for our team of Men in Black agents as they protect the galaxy,” said Jeffrey Godsick, executive vice president of brand management and global partnerships at Sony Pictures Motion Picture Group. ALSO READ: Lexus focuses on driving luxury for all