 WHITE RIVER – Water is a basic human right that the South African Constitution promises to its citizens. The residents of White River, however, feel that they have been denied this right. At a community meeting last Thursday, they indicated that they will not be taking this lying down any longer. The meeting was held under the leadership of outgoing ward councillor, Trudie Grové Morgan. She said she took the crisis to the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) three years ago. Trudie Grové Morgan and Piet Skead. “I was hoping to come to you tonight with good news,” a disheartened Grové Morgan said to the furious residents. She explained that promises were made that a new reservoir would be built during the construction of the new mall just outside White River, but this was never done. “This left the town out to dry,” she said. Water outages in this town are a common problem as well as dirty water, blockages, burst and leaking pipes and water not being distibuted equally to all residents. Other issues regarding qualified water operators, service efficiency and outrageous rates were also raised. ALSO READ: Water is life, so protect it During the meeting she said the municipality was not taking their complaints regarding water leakages and burst and dilapidated pipes seriously. “In town they are a part of Silulumanzi. That means that if a pipe bursts, it is fixed within a day. Here, the water streams down the streets.” The residents applauded Grové Morgan, demanding that they not only acquire the services of Silulumanzi, but that they once again become independent from CMLM. Piet Skead, chairman of the Ratepayer’s Association, agreed. “We want to set up a petition that demands that we be serviced by Silulumanzi, but then we have to stand together as a community and we need to ensure that all the residents sign the petition. If we do not get the response we want, we will then have to take the legal route, for which the residents will foot the bill.” Those in attendance said they were willing to do this, and agreed that if the municipality did not attend to their grievances, they were willing to go as far as a White River shutdown and strikes.  ALSO READ: Stakeholders prioritising the safety of tourists CMLM spokesman, Joseph Ngala, encouraged residents to make use of the call centre on 086-162-6623 and via email on customercare@mbombela.gov.za. However, he could not give a concrete reason as to why there is a water crisis. “Customers are welcome to phone and ask why there is no water. With regards to major shut-downs, the department always strives to send out notifications through various means.” He added that White River is not part of the concession area, as per the concession agreement with Silulumanzi. “In terms of new development, a new pipeline has been constructed to bring additional water supply to White River. The next phase is to build a new reservoir for additional capacity.”