 WHITE RIVER – Two suspects were arrested for stealing 27 bags of macadamia nuts valued at nearly R50 000 last week. The taxi used to transport the nuts was also confiscated. On June 27 Hi-Tech staff from White River, Hazyview and Hi-Tech Guards noticed five suspects entering a farm near Kiepersol. According to operations manager, Jchaan de Beer they were able to monitor their movements with technological force multipliers (on which he preferred not to elaborate) until they exited the farm again. They then had bags of macadamia nuts with them. The suspects were seen hiding the bags in a nearby gum tree plantation the following morning to collect later. De Beer said they left the bags there and monitored the direct area for the rest of the day (June 28). They detected the same suspects again at around 17:00, entering the plantation and proceeding towards the hidden bags of macadamia nuts. The suspects collected the bags, placed them in black refuse bags and moved the loot closer to the R40 where it could be collected. At around 22:00 a white Quantum minibus stopped at the location and the bags were loaded into it. Hi-Tech units waited until all the bags were loaded and after the minibus departed, their stopper group reacted. The minibus was stopped on the R40 near the Klipkopje Dam turn-off. Four of the suspects jumped from the minibus before it came to a halt and the unit gave chase on foot. Two of the suspects were apprehended. The minibus and the 27 bags of stolen macadamia nuts were confiscated and both suspects transported to Hazyview SAPS where a case of theft was opened against them. De Beer said the bags were handed back to the owner and were later confirmed to be a total weight of 600 kilograms, worth approximately R48 000. “Product theft is a profitable business for thugs, and macadamia nuts and avocados are being targeted,” he said. He promised that Hi-Tech takes these types of crimes just as seriously as any other, as it has been confirmed that product thieves often participate in housebreaking and farm attacks due to their knowledge of the areas and farms. “Criminals often intimidate employees to gather information that can assist them in their plans to commit crime.” Anyone with information that can assist them in their investigations may contact the control room at any time on 013-751-3165 or call the operational manager on 063-689-7961 with sensitive information. Caller information will be kept confidential.