 Hoërskool Bergvlam boasts a wealth of sporting talent and 18-year-old Muhammed Arabi’s achievements on the tennis court are evidence of this. The unassuming teenager’s face lit up when he spoke about the sport being his passion. “I got into playing tennis to help me enjoy school. Once I started playing in grade one, things just started taking off and I started winning tournaments,” he said. Muhammed is currently ranked as the number-one player in the Lowveld in his age group, a feat which he did not achieve overnight. Muhammed Arabi is the school’s tennis sensation. ALSO READ: Gimnaste bokspring bo-oor die kompetisie “I reached this goal last year and it took me close to seven years to get this point. I hope to repeat that performance this year.” With only one tennis tournament left to play for 2019, the fast-serving youngster will have his work cut out for him. He is Hoërskool Bergvlam’s top-seeded player in his age group and admitted that the school’s support has been a major factor in his success. “The support from the school, my family and friends has been overwhelming. With them behind me, I am confident, that the way forward will be smooth.” He credits the support of the school, family and friends as his greatest motivators. ALSO READ: Gesoute klerk lê na 47 jaar die tuig neer The tennis ace credits his coach, Henk Heymanns, with his strong serve which he said caused an opponent’s racket to fly out of his hand in a Johannesburg tournament. The journey has not always been smooth sailing. He recalled pulling a muscle in Pretoria about two months ago. His most severe injury was a back injury, which put him out of commission for a month. “The team needed extra points and I had to constantly speak to myself during the match to play through the excruciating pain.” He said his family and friends remained his biggest supporters and are at every tournament, whether locally or further afield. The sport has helped sharpen his focus and mental fortitude. The keen tennis player wants to leave his mark on the sport. ALSO READ: Rare skin condition changes teen’s life “The court is where I can be myself. When I play tennis, I am free of any stress and in this world, I can dominate,” he said. For now, his ambition is to become mentally stronger, which he hopes to achieve with the guidance of Eckhardt van der Linde. ALSO READ: Gastehuis vier 20 jaar in idilliese bergdorpie “I am trying to become much stronger mentally, because it gives you a competitive edge over your opponents.” The forehand specialist is eager to make a name for himself in the sport and is already on the right track, closely watching his diet and maintaining a rigorous exercise regimen. “I plan on taking a gap year after matric so that I can focus on making a career of the sport and hope to travel beyond our borders, throughout the African continent and abroad.”