 BARBERTON – Sappi Lomati Sawmill, in partnership with Penreach, visited the centres and identified the need for natural playgrounds.
Sappi brand ambassadors and partners from Penreach started work on establishing two playgrounds on Wednesday.
The work involved clearing of play areas, working vegetable gardens and playgrounds, testing newly made playground equipment that was manufactured by staff at Lomati and removing hazards to ensure the safety of the children who will use the new playgrounds. Karen Mattheus, Xola Ngomane, Esther Sithole and Lindy Shingange. “I was overwhelmed by the enthusiasm of everyone involved” says Sappi communications contractor, and also project manager, Allet Kinnear. Read More: Destiny Private College treat courtesy attendants to a bite to eat on #Nelson Mandela Day
“The animated faces of the 32 volunteers clearly reflected the famous words of the late Nelson Mandela: ‘May your choices reflect your hopes, not your fears’,” she added. In the area, Sappi sponsors 11 ECD centres in partnership with Penreach.
According to Sappi’s communication manager, Elsabe Coetzee, several ECD natural playground projects are currently under way in various communities in which Sappi operates. Also Read: Halls helps eight local projects on Mandela Day Joseph Mkathshwa, Sipho Fakudze, Abednego Fakudze, Patrick Bobo and Zacharia Mhlabane. “We are very grateful to our colleagues at Lomati for agreeing to manufacture new safe playground equipment and for Penreach for guiding us in establishing suitable play areas at the ECD centres. Play allows children to use their creativity while developing their imagination,” she said.
Past Vusi Ngomane of Bantfwabetfu said they were grateful for the assistance. Allet Kinnear, Lindy Shingange, Zodwa Mashaba, Esther Sithole and Vusi Ngomane. “Our playgrounds were unplayable. With these new improvements, the kids will enjoy playing in a safe environment. The bright colours will make them enjoy their playgrounds,” said Ngomane.