 GR Sport is the second tier in the GR product pyramid, which encompasses suspension upgrades and cosmetic enhancements. Gazoo Racing represents Toyota’s unified motorsport arm, competing in various global motorsport disciplines such as the World Endurance Challenge (WEC), the World Rally Championship (WRC), NASCAR, off-road racing (Dakar) and others.  The heart of the Hilux GR’s upgrades centre around the bespoke Gazoo Racing up-rated and tuned suspension. The shock absorbers have been changed to a monotube design with revised damping, working in conjunction with increased front spring rates to offer a sportier ride without sacrificing ride comfort. ALSO READ: Toyota welcomes new sales manager The rear leaf spring rates have been left unaltered to maintain the existing payload. The exterior of the GR Sport boldly distinguishes itself from its normal Hilux brethren, with Gazoo Racing branding and the now-signature red/white/black decals. The GR Sport is offered in three colours; Glacier White, Arizona Red or Attitude Black – matching that of the Gazoo Racing livery. The enlarged, honeycomb front grille features distinctive TOYOTA lettering (akin to the Dakar race vehicle) and a gloss-black finish, accompanied by a GR badge. The vertical fog-lamp garnish features a red or white outline (dependent on exterior colour), while all models feature a black bonnet and roof – adding visual drama.  The black accents are extended to the side mirrors, GR-branded tubular side steps, over-fenders and GR Sport-specific 17″ alloy wheels shod with 265-65-R17 tyres. The tailgate badging has also been changed to Rifle Black to complement the rest of the exterior package. The GR Sport also boasts a unique interior, utilising red accents to reinforce its sporting credentials. The black leather interior features red contrast stitching and GR logos embroidered on the headrests and carpets. A GR-branded push start button wakens the engine. Each Hilux GR Sport includes a branded production plate and serial number – confirming its pedigree. The infotainment system features an enlarged 8″ (20.3cm) display (now flush with and integrated into the dashboard) with additional rotary dials for volume and tune functions.  The unit also features key-function shortcut buttons, a touchscreen interface, on-board satellite navigation, DVD, USB, Bluetooth and Aux interfaces. Steering wheel operability and a reverse camera adds comfort and convenience. The instrument cluster features stylish white-faced dials, with orange needles and a cog-shaped motif. A 4.2″ TFT multi-information display with steering wheel control relays a variety of information to the driver (including audio, compass, navigation prompts, trip info and fuel consumption). The Hilux GR Sport is equipped with a 2.8 GD-6 turbodiesel engine, delivering 130kW and 450Nm, mated exclusively to a 6-speed automatic transmission (with manual and sport modes) and “switch-on-the-fly” 4WD transaxle.  Driver-selectable Power and Eco modes alter the driving performance accordingly, by adapting throttle response and transmission shift logic. Only 600 Hilux 2.8 GD-6 4×4 GR Sport 6AT will be built and will cost R 707 400. ALSO READ: Meet the Hilux Invincible 50