 But then, a wise man once said: “God will not do that which you are not prepared to also do yourself. Take that first step!” Citybug – often copied, but still unmatched in terms of commitment and unbeaten in its service offering. December 2019 will mark the 25th celebration of Citybug – 25 years – and an average of 5,2 million accident-free kilometres per year. Yes, the three-wheeler has come a long way.  Today, the three-wheeler is no more, but it will forever be an important mascot within the Citybug business model, which has become a mighty warrior in terms of the safe transport of people over long distances. Extensive research on possible routes has been and still is the backbone of its success, and owner Jacques Esterhuizen sure knows the South African landscape. ALSO READ:24 years of excellent service at Citybug I was an active listener in a small group discussion at the recent introduction of their new Quantum fleet. It oozed Jacques’s commitment to proper planning, and his intimate understanding of the challenges and competition within Citybug’s environment, is, in my mind, unparalleled.  Speaker after speaker praised Citybug’s integrity. Nedbank has financed 244 vehicles since Citybug’s inception. Imperial Toyota Nelspruit’s sales manager Desmond Bosch told the story of how he, as a scholar, caught a ride on the three-wheeler. Now, he and his team are part of the vehicle supply chain to Citybug. Life has its own way of surprising us with coincidences. That is if you believe (which I do not), in coincidence.  Everything is all part of a larger picture. Toyota has, with the new Quantum, departed from the traditional minibus design to which we have become used within the South African market. The new Quantum comes with a particularly prominent front end, larger sliding door, a new interior which offers more space, greater comfort and a slightly more powerful and economical engine.  This synchronizes perfectly with the Citybug philosophy and business model. Jacques concluded the evening with an invitation/challenge to everyone to participate in the Citybug rowing challenge on August 3. The event will be in aid of Flamboyant School, which is Citybug’s community support project for 2019. ALSO READ:Get ready for this year’s Citybug challenge