 Praise and worship sessions, educational talks and a variety of fun activities at The Hope of Africa’s Leadership Camp formed part of a life-changing experience for several of the 36 young attendees last week. Held at Libuyile Game Lodge, near the Nkomazi Toll Plaza, the four-day camp aimed to encourage young people from Nkomazi to take the lead, grow in their Christian faith and give back to their communities. According to Paulette van der Merwe, The Hope of Africa’s South African director, the group consisted of matriculants, students from TUT and other universities, and a few working 20-somethings from the area. ALSO READ:Riverside Mall celebrates 21st birthday with a splash of colour The Hope of Africa is a community of Christians that work in South Africa, Kenya and Uganda to educate and inspire young people to become leaders and make a positive impact on their villages and communities. They believe that “God can move mountains with young people with a vision and purpose”.
Several professionals and inspirational members of the community volunteered at the camp as speakers, shared their experiences and testimonies or led the group in crafts, praise and worship and even a walk in the bush. Edwin Makiwa leads one of the groups in an activity. The campers worked in a large group and split into smaller ones for discussions. Topics included Christian-related issues such as sin, a relationship with God, how to turn fear into faith, the power of words and that changing your life is a process.
Speakers also discussed how to move from a victim to victor, not to let the past dictate the future, and how to face and deal with problems. Kgaogelo Mtini spoke about gender-based violence and encouraged the group to become people who stand against it. She told the group that abused people become abusers if they do not heal properly, and urged them to build a relationship with someone, not to just get physical quickly. Mel Preddy advised the group on finances and urged them to save and stay humble no matter how successful they get. He also spoke to them about starting a business and how to make it successful. “Ask the Lord for the right opportunities. He will not forsake you financially.” He also told them to set aspirations, then goals and to look at the wider picture, but not lose sight of the small things we can achieve or have. ALSO READ:Premier to tackle overcrowding in local schools Psychologist Liziwe Molapo helped the group do some introspection and think about who they are and listen to advice in life. Sally McGibbon explored the obstacles that keep us from our goals, like revenge, anger, arguments and a victim mindset, and how to properly set goals. Other topics included how to find your life purpose and be successful and young people’s tendency to feel entitled. The group was urged to remember that they have to work and give to get something in exchange, choose their friends wisely and work to learn, not just to earn money. Some of the adult camp leaders and speakers; Paulette van der Merwe, Sithembile Nkosi, Danielle Bink, Nicholas Mhlanga and Sally McGibbon. The campers were really inspired by the speakers and said that they had learnt much. Several mentioned that their faith had grown through this experience. For more information on The Hope of Africa, visit www.hopeofafricayouth.com.