 MBOMBELA – A new principal officially took the reins of Lowveld High earlier this month. Willem Steyn said that it is both an honour and a privilege to take up this position. He replaced Jane Wandrag, who had been a part of the school for 33 years – eight of which she was at the helm before her retirement.
Steyn has been with the school since 1998. Born in 1973, Steyn matriculated at CR Swart in Pretoria before studying education and graduating in 1995 at Tukkies.
His passion for history lead to him teaching just that, as well as geography. For the past six years however, he solely teaches history to grade 10s.
In his free time he mountain bikes. Lowveld High’s Jane Wandrag retires after 33 years He is a father of two, and wishes to also be a father figure, especially for the boys at Lowveld High.
“I look forward on continuing the legacy that my predecessors left behind,” he said. “I plan to lead to lead from the front and set an example. You cannot lead if you cannot serve. My message to the parents and learners of Lowveld High is simple: together we will keep on building Lowveld High the same way that the learners and parents have been building Lowveld High for the last 50 years,” he said. “I follow in the footsteps of a long line of distinguished principals, each of who have shaped the school into the unique and proud establishment it is today. Lowveld High excels on both the academic and sporting fronts and has made a massive impact on the community it serves and will keep on doing so in the future,” he said.
“Even though the education landscape has changed over the last 25 years and we have seen different models come and go, the basic philosophy behind successful schools has not changed. Value-driven schools have proven to be the most sustainable. Barberton sportcaster jet off to Spain “The values that Lowveld High advocate are respect, honesty, responsibility, excellence and accountability. These values continue to inform our endeavour to educate our young people to become adults who will take their place in their community with confidence and integrity,” he said.