 MBOMBELA – The CRC Harvest event at Mbombela Stadium on Wednesday night, delivered an evening of praise and worship for all church denominations. Upon entering the stadium, the warm welcome by the ushers ensured that attendees were immediately at home as the church set about fulfilling its mandate of winning the lost at any cost. Under the leadership of visionary pastor At Boshoff, the church has grown in leaps and bounds since the establishment of CRC Bloemfontein in 1994. The scores of people braved the cold to attend the event. As the proceedings got under way, the praise and worship team led the attendants in song and it was immediately apparent that the event was one during which lives would be touched.
ALSO READ: Moms are the music that makes our lives sing Worshippers raised their hands to the sky and the emotions flowed as they sang along to the hymns. CRC’s main focus is to plant churches – not only locally. It has branches in Bloemfontein, Pretoria and Johannesburg, as well as over 90 CRC churches globally. Pastors At and Nyretta Boshoff. Its mission is “mend the nets, the catch will be great” and it seeks to take a united stand to ensure the salvation of every man, woman and child in Mpumalanga. Judging by the throngs of people who braved the cold for a night of celebration, praise and worship, CRC is hard at work in  the province to make this become a reality. ALSO READ: Uncertainty about current status of KNP managing executive

During his sermon, the much sought after pastor Boshoff touched on all spheres of society, with biblical principles which are practically applicable in business, the youth, our government, farmers and the professionals like doctors and lawyers with whom we interact in our daily lives. Pastors Hennie and Elizna van der Merwe. There was a number of inspiring testimonies from CRC congregants who elaborated on how their lives have been positively impacted since accepting Christ as their Lord and Saviour. The atmosphere at the gathering was tangible and when pastor Boshoff took to the stage, his understanding of the Word left the receptive audience in deep contemplation about the wonder of Scripture.
ALSO READ: Two accidents at one of Kruger National Park’s gates The lasting impact of living by these principles is undeniable and the nods of agreement as his words echoed through the stadium, were a testimony to this. CRC Mbombela, under the leadership of pastors Hennie and Elizna van der Merwe, was established six years ago and grew from two to 1 200 members. Its unprecedented growth is evidence that it is touching the lives of many who seek spiritual fulfillment as it pursues the mandate “win the lost at any cost” and extend the church within and beyond the borders of South Africa.