 If the Mpumalanga Youth Choir (MPYC) can make it there, they can make it anywhere. The choir has been selected to compete in Talent America from June 22 to July 1 in New York City. In existence for 46 years, Talent America is the United States’ longest running talent competition and showcase of the arts. The choir qualified for Talent America by performing four songs and winning four gold medals at Talent Africa held from March 25 to 30 at the Roodepoort Theatre. If they go to New York they will compete against youth choirs from all over the world.  The choir managers and parents are attempting to secure funding sponsors to cover the enormous cost of sending the choir to New York for eight days. The cost is approximately R56 000 per child. This includes flights, accommodation, entry into Talent America, attending a Broadway production, sightseeing and all the other expenses, except food and pocket money. “Just being selected to attend Talent America is a remarkable achievement. Other kids in various performing arts have also been selected so the MPYC will actually be part of Team South Africa and will be representing their country. They will be awarded Federation of Performing Arts South Africa colours,” said Allet Kinnear, marketing manager of the choir. The choir consists of 74 members from the Highveld and Lowveld. All are high school pupils. The MPYC is managed by Jeanné Lourens and conducted by André Oosthuizen. Because of the large geographical area the members live in, getting everyone together to practise is a huge logistical challenge. Such is the dedication of the young choristers that every Friday they meet at Belfast Academy school hall, approximately halfway between the Highveld and Lowveld. This means a round trip of 200 kilometres or more for the Highveld kids, depending in which town they live, and 260 kilometres from Mbombela to Belfast and back for the Lowvelders. They travel by bus and parents and choir management cover the costs of the trips. The children have special permission to leave school early on Fridays to catch the various buses to get to the weekly practise. Most arrive back home after 21:30. “These children have worked extremely hard and have shown absolute dedication to be selected for Team South Africa for Talent America. But the performing arts does not receive the recognition that sport does. We would be grateful for any financial aid,” said Kinnear. Anyone prepared to make financial contributions to the choir’s trip to New York can contact Allet Kinnear on 082-805-0117 or André Oosthuizen on 063-797-9015.