 MBOMBELA – Mediclinic Nelspruit manager Robyn Baard said this year, as they celebrated International Nurses’ Day on Sunday, they took time to recognise each nurse who had chosen a career of caring. “Nursing is a career dedicated to helping others recover or support patients and their families where recovery is not possible. The specific date is chosen as a global tribute to the profession, as this coincides with Florence Nightingale’s birthday and allows us to celebrate our nurses’ valuable work.” ALSO READ: Make your mom matter most this Mother’s Day Mediclinic Nelspruit recognize the skills and care rendered by Phumaphi Nkuna as the local annual Nursing Excellence Award recipient in recognition of the dedication she invested into caring for her patients and supporting her colleagues. The significance of this award was noted in that nominations are made by nursing peers who work tirelessly alongside each other, ensuring the best possible patient outcomes. ALSO READ: Technology embraced at SACBW’s Empowerment Roadshow The 2019 recipient, Phumaphi Nkuna has been with Mediclinic Nelspruit for seven years and works in the Orthopedic ward. Phumaphi was selected as Mediclinic Nelspruit 2019 award winner because of her motivation of her peers and colleagues and the unrelenting dedication to her patients, pre-empting their needs with compassion and care. “In my 15 years at Mediclinic I have come across a number of really special nurses. Nurses who are there for a patient in their time of need. It takes a unique mix of dedication and courage to keep delivering excellent care when our patients are at their most vulnerable. We would like to use the Mediclinic Nursing Excellence Award as an opportunity to recognise nurses who give of themselves daily; nurses who truly believe that connecting with their patients is an essential part of who they are,” says Estelle Coustas, Nursing Executive, Mediclinic Southern Africa. Baard added that they encourage each patient, family member or friend to take the opportunity to recognise those around  that are giving unselfishly to heal and care for others.