 TONGA – Police spokesman Brig Leonard Hlathi said the officials were arrested after a joint team of the SAPS comprising of Crime Intelligence and TRT members carried out a sting operation after having acquired information that the pair may have been in the process of transporting the drugs.  ALSO READ: Court in short: Farm manager found guilty and more They discovered that the suspects were travelling in one of their private vehicles, with one of them being off-duty and the other, on. “The team pulled them off, demanding to search the vehicle, at which point the three bags were found inside the car resulting in their arrest.” Meanwhile in neighbouring Schoemansdal, a joint team also comprising of TRT and station members arrested a 49-year-old Department of Health employee, employed as a driver, with a 42-year-old man for dealing in dagga. ALSO READ: History made with first court case in brand new High Court The duo were arrested last Monday, at about 02:30, when they were found with compressed dagga weighing 5,9 kilograms, while travelling in a state vehicle belonging to the department, attached to the Shongwe Hospital. A source close to the investigation stated that the dagga was worth more than R200 000. They appeared in the Boschfontein Periodical Court the following day, where David Nkosi (49) was released on warning while his accomplice, Foster Zulu (42) was granted R500 bail. They are expected to appear on May 30, in the same court. Provincial police commissionerGen Mondli Zuma said it was sad that civil servants, including the police, were involved in the proliferation of dagga, especially within the Tonga Cluster. “There is no space for such criminal elements in the SAPS in particular and the government in general. These arrests should serve as a stern warning to other civil servants currently involved in similar activities that their days are numbered because the net is closing in on them,” said Zuma. The suspects appeared in the Tonga Magistrate’s Court on Monday facing a charge of dealing in dagga