 BADPLAAS -According to Sgt Peace Mbokane, Elukwatini police spokesman, the duo, Ntokozo Priscilla Nkosi (32) and Zinhle Marcia Makhanya (27) were arrested on May 15 for charges of being in possession of suspected stolen goods. The duo’s arrest was the fruit of the cooperation between the Royal eSwatini Police and the South African Police Service at Elukwatini. The pair, who are apparently lovers, were linked to the crime by an investigation of the eSwatini police following the robbery at one of the main banks in eSwatini, which left the bank with a R530 000 deficit,” said Mbokane. The couple had already spent R277 000 out of the R530 000. Investigations revealed that the robbery happened after gun-wielding suspects stormed into the bank and held a teller, Ntobeko Annette Makhanya (30), hostage. As the teller was screaming and begging for mercy, the security guard who was on duty, Sithembiso Derrick Dhlamini, heard her cry and rushed into the bank to help her. As Dhlamini entered the bank, he was confronted with a gun and had to obey the gunman’s orders to follow Makhanya into the bank’s safes. They were told to empty the contents of the safe into a bag handed to them by the suspect,” continued Mbokane. He said a few days after the incident, the probe by the eSwatini Police revealed that the robbery was actually a premeditated inside job between the bank teller (Makhanya), the bank security guard (Dhlamini) and the two suspects arrested at Elukwatini (Nkosi and Makhanya). “The four had earlier crafted the plot to gain wealth under the pretense it was a robbery,” added Mbokane. Read More: Police warn about the dangers of spreading fake news online
He said when Makhanya was interrogated by the eSwatini police, she confessed to the plot and implicated the other three accomplices. She (Makhanya) further revealed to the police that the loot was smuggled into South Africa. It was to be kept at Nhlazatje until the situation was smooth to share it between each of them. The local police sniffed out the location of both Nkosi and Makhanya and found them at Top Centre section in Tjakastad, where they were arrested,” said Mbokane. He said the couple had already spent R277 000 out of the R530 000. When asked where the rest of the money went, they attributed their expenses to a settlement of a vehicle debt in the Kingdom of eSwatini, fitment of new tyres to two vehicles and towards the purchase of a Nissan Lorand which was confiscated by the police. The Station Commander of Elukwatini SAPS, Colonel Mfundisi Patrick Makamu Nissan Lorand which was confiscated by the police. The bank employee as well as the security guard have already been arrested in eSwatini.
The duo arrested at Elukwatini will reappear before the Eerstehoek Magistrate Court on Thursday for a formal bail application.