 WHITE RIVER – In the early morning hours of May 15 members of the Hillsview community embarked on protest action that literally shut down the township for the entire day. Afterwards, once their issues were being addressed, people helped to clean the scene. The protest was mobilised when a farmer claimed that Plot 52 Central Estates, White River, formerly known as Ambient Farm, had been leased to him by the Mpumalanga Economic Growth Agency (MEGA) for farming purposes. He had already moved equipment to the site and started to prepare the soil. The community was upset because that land was earmarked for much-needed residential development. When a source at MEGA confirmed the allegation, people convened an urgent meeting and decided to embark on a peaceful, non-partisan shutdown protest. Peter Makukule was nominated to be the community spokesman. Their reasons behind the protest and demands were communicated to officers of SAPS White River and other law- enforcement agents, who worked together to meet their demand of seeing the Mbombela mayor, representatives of human settlements, and MEGA. When Busi Ndlovu from the municipal mayoral committee and councillor for human settlements, rural and urban developments, arrived he confirmed that Plot 52 was still earmarked for residential development and that the municipality was not aware of any agricultural lease on it. A delegation of senior managers from MEGA also arrived and informed the community that a farmer had submitted a proposal to the agency to lease the land for agricultural use for 15 years, but that the application had only been received on Monday May 13. It was neither approved, nor signed off by MEGA. The delegation also confirmed that Plot 52 was still earmarked for residential development for Hillsview. They said the farmer was informed to remove his caterpillars from the site. The community requested that MEGA provide a copy of the prior agreement between the agency and the Department of Human Settlements that proved that the land had been reserved for the development of an integrated human settlement. A delegation consisting of Selby Marsha, Makukule, Johnny Morgan, Nesta du Plooy and Bonginkosi Lewis accompanied the delegates to the MEGA offices to collect the document. Upon confirmation from the delegation, people called off the shutdown protest and allowed law-enforcement agencies to clear the main road for public use. They helped to clean the scene and then reconvened at the community hall for a briefing from the delegation and the councillor.