 MBOMBELA – The terminally ill Carmen Brown has not yet started ticking items off her bucket list. “I have been in bed with immense pain for three weeks now,” Brown said. She added that it was difficult for her to plan the bucket list as she does not know when she will have good and bad days, “but I am going for a pain management course soon which will hopefully help”.  Brown, however, proved that she was not about to let this pain stop her from living her best life when she enjoyed the evening with friends and family on May 4. She attended a fund-raiser organised in her honour at Marlin’s Pub and Grill which was hosted by the Crusaders Club. Soul Taxi, Goat ‘N Hare and DJ Rademyer performed at the event.  Through the sale of tickets and raffles during the evening they managed to raise
R6 300. The money is to be used to help Brown complete her bucket list. She hopes to use it for travelling costs to complete items on her list that are far away like visiting Niagara Falls or going on an overseas trip. ALSO READ: Carmen keeps her joy of life despite critics  Lowvelder previously reported that Brown was diagnosed with stage three breast cancer in 2014. After chemo, radiation and a mastectomy, she was in remission for six months. At her six-month check-up they found cancer cells under her arm and in her lymph nodes. This prompted three more rounds of chemo and another operation in October 2018. With weekly draining of fluids, a nurse accidentally punctured her lung, resulting in her being admitted to a local government hospital with a collapsed lung. Brown was there for two weeks to recover.  In February, they informed her that the cancer cells were getting bigger, more aggressive and were now stage four. The doctor told her that the cancer had spread to her back, chest, arm and bones and told her that there was nothing more they could do except offer more chemo for pain relief. Following this she created a bucket list with everything she wishes to do before she departs life on Earth. Brown’s friend, Sarah Carmichael can be phoned on 079-755-3655 should you wish to get involved. READ HER FULL BUCKET LIST HERE: Terminale kankerlyer wil lewe ten volle geniet