 The schools will each win a Cashbuild building material voucher to the value of R15 000, which will be handed out at the opening ceremony of the refurbished Cashbuild Kanyamazane store on Thursday. Vulamasango Primary School, Tekwane Primary School and Lekazi Primary School are just three of the eight schools that will each receive a Cashbuild building material voucher. ALSO READ: Court in short: Farm manager found guilty and more Vulamasango Primary School’s principal, Mr Phiri, will be using the voucher to build new classrooms. “Our school currently has 1200 children, but only 22 classrooms. We would like to use the voucher to start building these additional rooms so that the learners can have more space and be more comfortable during their lessons. In addition, our toilets need fixing.” He adds that they are very grateful to Cashbuild for this opportunity to be able to work on their maintenance, and if there is any money remaining, they would like to do some work on the school’s courtyard and kitchen. Mrs Wessels, the principal of Tekwane Primary School said the assembly area where learners meet every week is in need of new paving. “We are so happy to have this voucher, as we can now improve the assembly area. This is a general area for the learners, so the space needs to be safe, tidy and easily accessible.” She added that the school is also in need of some outside taps and hand-wash basins which they are hoping to install. Lekazi Primary School’s principal, Mr Lukhombo, will be using the voucher for numerous things. “Firstly, we need additional classrooms and with this voucher we would like to start building these. We need to repair the entry gates at the back of the school, extend the kitchen and also build a shelter for the students to stand under while waiting for their transport.” He added that they are grateful to Cashbuild, as they are now able to kick-start the process for some of their plans. ALSO READ: Mediclinic believes in their nurses At the opening ceremony of the refurbished Cashbuild Kanyamazane store on the 16th of May 2019, when the building material vouchers totaling R120 000 will be handed out to the eight winning schools, the children will entertain everyone with singing, cultural dancing and theatrical performances. The Cashbuild Art-at-Heart competition entails learners from each school to submit their best artwork to Cashbuild. This artwork is displayed at the ceremony, and remains on display in the Cashbuild store for the next six years. Artwork will be judged and three winners from each school will be named. Winners will receive Cashbuild Art-at-Heart gold, silver and bronze certificates for first, second and third place respectively. The Manager’s Choice award will also be presented to the overall winner of the artwork competition. This award will be announced on the day and the winning learner will receive a stationery pack and a glass trophy. The winner is also given the honour of officially opening the refurbished store. The schools that will benefit from the Cashbuild Art-at-Heart donations are:
1. MPAKENI PRIMARY SCHOOL
2. MASIHAMBISANE PRIMARY SCHOOL
3. BUHLEBUYETA PRIMARY SCHOOL
4. CATFULANI PRIMARY SCHOOL
5. LIKHWETI PRIMARY SCHOOL
6. VULAMASANGO PRIMARY SCHOOL
7. TEKWANE PRIMARY SCHOOL
8. LEKAZI PRIMARY SCHOOL Since the Art-at-Heart campaign was launched 18 years ago, Cashbuild has helped more than 3 200 schools in Southern Africa with over R40-million worth of building materials. Cashbuild is BEE compliant and every time a store is opened, relocated or refurbished, Cashbuild not only makes donations to local schools, but also creates jobs for community members. The Art-at-Heart competition is a southern African Cashbuild initiative whereby donations are made to some of the region’s most needy schools. 