 The local leg of the national roadshow was held at Tindlovu at the botanical garden on Thursday.The speakers were next level and they made the event enjoyable. The roadshow was presented in the form of discussions and interaction. Every speaker had something interesting to share and they each seemed to have made an impact on each guest.    Elise Coetser said, “It’s the end of the business world as we know it. Future business won’t survive without women.” She urged women to embrace the fourth industrial revolution. ALSO READ:Tony Wake to entertain at SACBW seminar “With the impact of the fourth industrial revolution on women, we need to be especially prepared. We need to encourage our goals as women to use technology to our advantage and create economic opportunities for ourselves. At the same time we need to inspire them to aggressively pursue those jobs that are less likely to be automated.   “As women we have a critical role to play in shaping the future of work and the future of our societies. Let’s never forget that technology is driven by and used by human beings, in fact there will always be a human component to technology… As we are putting processes in place to ensure we know what you need so that we can find a way to make it happen,” she said. ALSO READ:Tony Wake inspire locals during meet-greet-event Nikita Blaauw spoke about understanding millennials. Blaauw said in one day millennials hold their phones a minimum of 150 times. She said these are people who were born from 1977 to 1995. “They are 24 to 42 years old, they are ambitious and not afraid to take risks. They are achievement-orientated, they want to see benefits and outcomes,” she explained.    Blaauw said for millennials, their job is just a means to an end. “In the work environment they want collaboration, positivity, creativity and diversity,” she added.   Erikka Motang spoke about an interactive workshop and the unique traits of women that future business desperately needs.
Nadia Carolissen shared, “Why we need to coach the younger generation of women who enter business”.