 BARBERTON – Motorists hoping to fill up on fuel or purchase a few last-minute items at the Jathira Filling Station on the R40 outside town were greeted by spent shell casings and a cordoned-off crime scene on Thursday morning. The Barberton Police Station commander, Col Johan Engelbrecht, confirmed the incident. He said, “There were no serious injuries, but the safe was bombed.” Staff who pitched up for the morning shift were unable to resume their duties as a forensic police officer from the SAPS Forensic Division combed the scene for clues. ALSO READ: Murder and suicide horrify community One of many spent shell casings on the scene. The Mpumalanga police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, said the robbery occurred at about 02:30 and that the crime was carried out by about 11 balaclava-wearing suspects. “According to reports, a gang of approximately 11 armed men entered the filling station on foot. One of the suspects drew a firearm and instructed the cashier to open the cashpoint,” he said. ALSO READ: Over 1000 COSATU members march for May Day in Mbombela The scene was cordoned off by police. ALSO READ: Multiple life terms for triple murderers She complied with the instruction, and one of the robbers helped her in removing the cash from the till. While this was happening inside the convenience store, a few of the attackers were arming explosives on the outside ATM. A group of the men ordered the staff into the kitchen and instructed them to lie down on the floor. “According to information, the explosives were set off thrice while the staff were lying on the floor for about an hour afterwards,” Hlathi said. The ATM around the corner was bombed by the suspects. The gang fled the scene into the nearby bush on foot, making off with an undisclosed sum of money. Engelbrecht indicated that security guards reporting for their shift change at 02:00 happened on the scene, adding that no injuries were reported. “The suspects are unknown and we request that anyone with information please contact the Barberton SAPS or any other police station so that an end can be brought to these kinds of criminal acts as soon as possible,” said Hlathi.