 Mother’s Day is just around the corner and many children are anxious to find the best treat for that special woman in their lives. Luckily, the Lowveld boasts a host of attractions our deserving moms would enjoy being pampered at. There is no shortage of restaurants for that fine dining experience, or a spa for a day of pampering and that long overdue massage. What better way to reward the moms whose days are an endless blur of rushing from work to the grocery store to make sure our tummies are filled, and dropping off and  Mbombela is filled with hidden treasures where mom can take off her shoes and let the tension ease. ALSO READ: VIEW GALLERY: A glitzy affair for Uplands matriculants Whether at the office or at home, our mothers deserve only the best on this special day. Fortunately for us, the Lowveld has a myriad of fun activities for mom which she can enjoy on her own or with the family. Mothers are undoubtedly the glue which keeps the family together and deserve a special thank you from their children. Nomvula Chawane is a dedicated mom who puts her family first. The roles they fulfil in our lives cannot be replaced. by anyone else, and when they are not there, they leave a void which cannot be filled. From the mothers who are referees when children bicker and squabble, to the mothers who sacrifice their love, time and attention to lavish it on their children. These are the true heroes who are recognised on the second Sunday of May each year for their unconditional love, nurturing spirits and fierce protectiveness. ALSO READ: Feel-good Friday tune (for all the Moms) You ask, “What is the best gift I can give my mom this year?” The answer lies all around us. From the swanky, ritzy restaurants to the more low-key and elegant dining establishments, Lowvelders are certainly spoilt for choice. If eating out is not her bag, why not consider a visit to one of the many lodges and guesthouses where she can go to take a breather? If you are at a loss, I would suggest asking mom what the ideal gift for her would be this Mother’s Day. It could be that new blender she has had her eye on all year, or that piece of jewellery she keeps admiring at the mall. No matter which way you look at it, the simplest gesture to thank her for the endless hours in the kitchen, our moms deserve the best.