 Robert Gumede, the founder of the IT firm Gijima Technologies and its holding company the Guma Group, said that as long he lives, he will vote. “Voting is a right and privilege. Everyone should make use of this opportunity – you owe it to those who have died to protect your right to vote,” he said and added that it is an opportunity for South Africans to decide what type of leaders they need, to deliver to the nation what they expect.”It’s time the government starts to deliver to the masses,” he said.  “Those who decide not to vote, deny fellow South Africans the opportunity to be part of a majority who votes. Voting is how you define yourself as part of something larger than yourself” ALSO READ:X marks the spot this election day – #IMadeMyMark The change he wishes to see is the recovery of the economy, of which the fundamentals were damaged in the recent past. “Fixing the economy will create sustainable jobs,” he said. Most importantly, he hopes that the Public Prosecutor, SARS, state-owned enterprises and the criminal justice system in particular, can operate without fear or favour, and as per the values of the father of the nation, Nelson Mandela.   Linda Grimbeek, chief operating officer of the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT), says that many of the people they speak to on a daily basis feel that there is no party which deserves their vote, but others are adamant that the country can only be changed by people voting. “What we cannot do though, with however many votes we cast, is to change the past. If and when we vote, we have to vote for the best future of South Africa. “We need a lot of development and investment into these developments to grow our economy and provide jobs and opportunities for everybody. “The business community is committed to realise that goal by working closely with government, but it needs to be a serious partnership. This commitment comes with a clear message: Get competent people in government. “We must be absolutely convinced that we will have reliable service delivery, water, electricity, roads, functioning municipalities, security of property rights and safety.”
She adds that sustainable growth industries, such as tourism and agriculture, need adequate funding. “When making policies that will influence business, consult business and really listen – do not just tick the ‘stakeholder consultation’ box. “The Lowveld probably has the biggest development potential in South Africa and we plan to attract a lot of investment in the immediate future, but we can only do that if we have confidence in the administrative abilities of the ruling party – whoever they may be.” Mpumalanga Community Policing provincial chairperson Kevin Pillay will definitely be making his marks on the ballots on May 8. ALSO READ:Meme Monday: Election Edition “This is part of our constitutional right and it is an obligation for all South Africans to vote. I feel extremely positive and upbeat about the future of our land. As South Africans, we must be truly patriotic and stand by our country through the bad times and the good ones. I believe after these elections, our country will be financially more stable and grow from strength to strength.    Oupa Pilane is a prominent Lowveld businessman, president of the LCBT for the past three years, director of the Graskop Gorge Lift Company and a proud Mbombelan, who believes strongly that everyone who is registered to vote should do so in order to build a truly united South Africa. “It is important to note that we come from a difficult past ten years of mismanagement and corruption at the highest level. “Our economy is struggling and the past few years have seen deep-seated racial divisions being widened,” he said. Pilane continued to list a number of issues which have been plaguing South Africa which he felt needed redress. Chief among these are widespread corruption in the highest echelons of government, crime, the rampant unemployment, particularly among the youth, and the need to hold those implicated in graft accountable. He said that he would definitely be at the polls tomorrow. “If you are a true patriot, you will be at the voting station, because this is one of the most important elections if we are to build a united South Africa. This election will decide whether we move backwards or forward as a country.” ALSO READ:#ImademyMark: South Africa counts down to election day According to Pilane, citizens who elect not to vote but are eligible to do so are doing themselves a disservice, because they exclude their voice from government. “Those who do not vote, either way, are giving away their rights and people will be making decisions on their behalf. Whether you vote or not, you will be giving others the power to decide the future of this country.” He urged all registered voters to be at the polling booths on May 8 and cast their vote for the political party they felt best mirrored their values. In doing so, Pilane believes that they would then have a voice to represent them. “This election, I will be using my vote to say yes to united communities, an economy which is being rebuilt, a solution to poverty, crime and joblessness, and an end to the racial division which is being sown,” he said.
Tom Nkosi of the South African Communist Party and the founder of Ziwaphi says many people were killed for the freedom we enjoy and that is why he will make his mark. “But when I cast my vote on May 8, it will be dedicated to the memory of Chris Hani whose assassination gave South Africa the date for its first democratic elections: April 27, 1994. Failure to vote would constitute a betrayal to his sacrifice.”    Shakina Mohamed, chief executive officer of GRIP says there is power in voting. ”We didn’t get this democracy easily and this is why I will vote. I won’t be able to hold the government accountable if I don’t. The most interesting thing now, in comparison with 1994, is that we have so many political parties in the country. If you sit and do not vote you cannot complain.”  Riaan Loubser of Unigrad says he plans to make his mark on May 8 and believes in the future of the country. “It is important to vote during elections. South Africa has a lot of potential and it is time for it to be realised. If we can unleash the potential we will all be able to realise that we can grow as a nation. I travel a lot, I have seen other countries and I can still say that this is a great place.”