It is an established business boasting a 50-year history. Its integrity and solid community foundations are beyond reproach and the new Westvaal Numbi Ford partnership is the beginning of its future for the next 50 years,” says owner and dealer principal, Gerrit Kroon. “The range of products that we offer allows us access to a market segment that includes both light commercial as well as passenger sales. And of course, our fix-it-first-time approach to everything we do has gained us a powerful and loyal 26 percent local market share.” The business is growing. The Hazyview dealership is managed by a young and vibrant team also able and striving to serve customers in their native language, Swazi. “In the future we would like to perhaps add another Ford dealership to further stimulate growth.  The wonderful thing about the Westvaal Numbi Ford partnership is that it added many corporate benefits but still affords us the freedom of personal service and contact with our customers. Both owners and partners are passionately hands-on and our systems allow for adding small details which will benchmark what and how we do things.” “It has been a privilege for me to be part of building a strong management team over the last four years. This team can now, as part of the Westvaal Group, cement the Ford brand’s presence locally. We want to be your preferred supplier and service provider and as Westvaal Numbi Ford we will continue to live our motto: ‘No ordinary dealership’.” Yes, you better believe this! Kobus van Zyl, Westvaal Motor Holdings franchise executive for Mpumalanga: “Westvaal have been part of the industry for more than 40 years. Westvaal Numbi Ford – previously Numbi Ford is an established well-managed and respected business.  Acquiring and incorporating the business into the Westvaal Group was a smooth process. This also because both businesses have many similar methodology and philosophical fundamentals that drives its operations. People and human interaction is the foundation of our business and it will always be. It is exciting for us to include the Ford brand in our group. With Hyundai, Isuzu, Opel, Renault, Suzuki, Volkswagen and Isuzu Trucks already being part of the group, we can now offer clients access to a large database of products. We look forward to build on the Numbi Ford success – now as Westvaal Numbi Ford.”   