 BADPLAAS – Bheki Arnot Makhanya (26) and Bhuti Solomon Mageba Nkosi (33) murdered Jacky Mandla Maziya (38), Sfiso Mmemo Nkosi (25) and Elvis Mfanafuthi Mavimbela (25). The incident happened at Nhlazatshe Extension 6, near Badplaas, on September 28, 2016. The court heard how the pair tied barbed wire around the victims’ necks and hands and hanged them on the rafters. The accused proceeded to burn them with a hot iron until they succumbed to the torture. The court also heard that the trio was murdered as a ploy to eliminate competition among illegal drug peddlers in the area. The bodies of the deceased were found with multiple burn wounds. All of them had been gagged in order to mute their screams. The accused first appeared before the Eerstehoek Magistrate’s Court on October 18, 2016 and were in and out of court until they were finally convicted and sentenced. Accused number 1, Makhanya was sentenced to a life term, while accused number 2, Nkosi was convicted to three life terms. Read More: Two alleged hitmen in a drug war arrested for gruesome murders While the court was in session, the presiding officer mentioned the seriousness of infringing on the most fundamental right of all, the right to life. He highlighted how remorse, if any, would not assist in bringing back the lives of the slain and the importance of sending a strong message to other would-be offenders on how seriously similar cases are viewed by the courts. It is this kind of hard work and outcome that restores trust in the country’s judicial system and asserts the authority of the state,” said General Zuma. The station commander of Elukwatini, Col Mfundisi Patrick Makamu, praised investigating officer, WO Makhosini Chadwick Nkosi, who took over the case after the former investigator passed away. “I appreciate how the official dedicated himself to ensuring the results are eventually achieved. It is such commitment that eases the judicial officers’ work and restores the community’s trust in the dignified blue that we wish all officials could emulate,” he said.