 MBOMBELA – A historic moment played out yesterday when Judge President Francis Legodi, presided over the first-ever criminal case to be heard at the brand-new Mpumalanga Division of the High Court. Operations at the court officially started with a welcoming ceremony that was attended by, among others, the minister of the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Michael Masutha, and Director-General Vusi Madonsela. ALSO READ: EXCLUSIVE: Sneak peak inside the Mpumalanga High Court “This has been a very long waiting period. At one time I thought this would only happen once I have already retired,” Legodi laughed.  He reiterated that this was not the official opening of the court and that it would only been done later in the year by the president. He appealed to the minister, requesting that he arrange a meeting with the premier, who could not attend the proceedings, in a plea to declare the building a national key point. “It is my dream that the president can announce this when he comes for the official opening later this year,” Legodi said. Apart from Masutha and Madonsela, Legodi also welcomed the current three acting judges to the bench. He said that acting judges Hendrik Roelofse, Brian Mashile and Ntombizanele Ndlokovane had to finish 32 civil matters by the end of the week.  Following the proceedings Legodi himself started with a criminal cases in which Even Malele and Mhlolo Paul Ngomane where respectively found guilty of, among other crimes, murder. The project initially started in October 2013 and was supposed to be completed within 24 months. It was completed at the beginning of this year and boasts 12 courtrooms, six of which will be used for civil cases and six for criminal ones.  The interiors of all the courtrooms are finished in beautiful kiaat wood and the art and furniture were locally designed and made. “This building will have men and women who are driven by mutual respect and who aim to serve with pride, compassion and dignity,”a proud Legodi said. ALSO READ: Taxpayers coughed up R 1.1 billion for new Mpumalanga High Court “It is with confidence that we can proudly say the beauty of the inside and outside of the building will be a true reflection of the inner and outside beauty of the people who work in it. They will know no status, prejudice or titles and will see one another as equals.” The court brings relief to the overburdened High Court roll that Lowvelder has reported on many times.