MBOMBELA – Emnotweni Casino is ensuring that your heart stays warm with laughter this winter. Comedians Eugene Khoza, Stuart Taylor and Mark Banks are very excited to see the Lowveld. We’ve made sure that you get to know them a little bit better before the show.  Mark is one of the utmost recognised and respected stand-up comedians in our country. He has made a name for himself talking about the South African government’s antics and the eccentric ways of the rich of the country. If you could be any animal, which animal would you be? “I would be a butcher bird. They never go hungry, impersonate over 65 bird calls, sometimes organise bird fights, have no set flight pattern and live happily in a thorn bush.” What is your favourite South African saying? “Ja nee. Can be said to or about anything.” What is your favourite thing about the Lowveld? “Apart from the fantastic climate, the wildlife and the unique smell, it is the fact that most of the time you never know what is going to happen next! A bit like the hurly-burly world of comedy. If comedy was a place it would be the Lowveld.” Why do you think more men choose a career in comedy than women? “It is changing, but is primarily a man’s world. I do not think women like laughing at women and women hate it when men laugh at women. They seem happier if men are the brunt of jokes. There are some great female comedians.” What do you want to be when you grow up? “A snake park owner. I am busy building one at the moment down in the Cape. I should be all grown up by the time it is completed. I have a special fascination with snakes – cobras and comedians are the same family.”  Probably best known as the presenter of  travel show, Going Nowhere Slowly, Stuart has been enchanting local and international audiences with his headlines, stand-up comedy and magic shows. He was keen to answer these pressing questions from all his comedy fans. What is your favourite South African proverb? “‘Dala what you must!’ It’s the coloured version of “’n Boer maak ’n plan” I think. Basically it is the essence of what we do as South Africans – we just get on with it and make it happen. I guess that is why we are coming to Emnotweni. We are just getting on with this mission of spreading the laughter.” What do you love about the Lowveld? “It feels like the inspiration for all America’s movies about the African bush. I got to see bits of it when I used to shoot a travel show called Going Nowhere Slowly and the area reminds me of carefree nights around a fire shooting the breeze with good mates.” Why do more men choose a career in comedy than women? “Because women are more sensible in their choices. It is the same reason a guy would choose an overpriced, impractical sports car over a sensible car (unless he is married). Having said that, there are a huge number of young women coming up in the ranks which is very exciting.” Which animal would you be if you had a choice? “I’d love to be my dog. He gets regular meals, regular walks and generally moves from one sunny spot to the other around the house. Come to think of it, that’s sort of what my day is like as a comedian.” What do you want to be when you grow up? “If growing up means having to do anything other than spreading laughter, then I am good where I am. I think what the world needs right now is a whole lot more airtime for comics and a whole lot less airtime for politicians.”  The popular comedian Euguene made his name in the world of local comedy and can now be found performing all over the country. He had us in stitches with his to-the-point answers. What do you want to be when you grow up? “Anything but bored.” What is your favourite thing about Mbombela? “It is not Johannesburg.”

If you could be any animal, which animal would you be, and why? “Seahorse.” What is your favourite South African saying? “Once you see something once, you don’t need to see it again.” Why do you think more men choose a career in comedy than women? “Because it just seems inaccessible to women, but it actually is not. Comedy has a lot of females, just not in South Africa maybe.”   Tickets cost R150 per person and are available at Computicket or www.emnotweni.co.za and Rewards Cardholders can save from 10% on ticket purchases. Doors open at 20:00. . 