 BARBERTON – Two women have died this week alone in allegedly love-related matters. In the first incident, a body of Mandisa Bridget Mdhluli (25) was found dead on Monday afternoon. Her body was found hanging from the roof. Read More: Young woman allegedly commits suicide after brawl with boyfriend There has been speculation that Mdhluli might have been killed by her boyfriend. This was after it was alleged that she had an argument with him a day before. However, post-mortem results, according to police spokesman, Capt Jabu Ndubane, were returned and confirmed that there was no foul play. The results confirmed that she killed herself. Mandisa Bridget Mdhluli (25) was found dead on Monday afternoon. In the second incident, the body of Khulile Malumane (28) was found dumped at the cemetery in Emjindini on Thursday afternoon. Also Read: Family desperate to find missing daughter She had multiple gun wounds and was last seen with her boyfriend on Sunday evening. Khulile Malumane (28) was found dumped at the cemeteries in Emjindini on Thursday afternoon. Siyabonga Malandule, Ancyl Ehlanzeni region secretary say enough is enough with the killings of young women in the area. Today we are marching to the Barberton Police Station commander, Col Johan Engelbrecht to call him to establish intensive investigation in the murderous cases. We also want the perpetrators not to be granted bail until their sentencing. Granting them bail sent a wrong precedent to other would-be women killers. It encourages them to kill because they will be granted bail,” said Malandule. Malandule said they will also request the police to revoke the bail that was granted to 16-year-old Nosipho Angel Nkosi’s killers, Nathi Mavuso (24) and Moses Fakudze (20). Nosipho Angel Nkosi (16) was killed last year August. The duo is allegedly facing charges of rape and murder. They are currently out on bail. Nkosi was killed on August 31. Her body was discovered on September 4 with marks around her neck. It is believed that she was strangled.