If you believe that addiction treatment involves the mind, body and soul, you’ll be looking for a place that specialises in professional and individualised therapeutic processes to meet all your needs. A place that’s idyllically tranquil; far from the busy city and influencers that may have brought you to the dark place you find yourself in. White River in the beautiful province of Mpumalanga is known for its lush natural beauty and offers a sense of calm and respite for everyone who comes to visit. Here you’ll find a treatment centre run by addiction specialists with a single goal in mind; to create the perfect setting to provide the best possible care for your recovery. White River Manor Executive Rehab is a luxury treatment centre offering 5-star accommodation and facilities, geared for discerning clientele seeking short- to long-stay treatment for addiction. It’s located on a beautiful 14-hectare property on the outskirts of the town of White River; nestled in a magical garden setting with towering trees, lush Lowveld vegetation and shaded lawns that run down to a pretty stream. The building that houses White River Manor is a 1920 heritage home that’s been stylishly renovated to offer luxurious accommodation and treatment facilities. It was built some twenty years after White River was established in 1904 as part of an irrigation scheme to provide employment for unemployed British soldiers returning from the Anglo-Boer War. For many years it was run as a luxury country lodge before it was taken over by the present owners.  What makes White River the perfect backdrop for your recovery is it’s ideally located to the familiar attractions that draw thousands of people from around the world to the region. It’s a short 5-kilometre drive from Kruger Mpumalanga International Airport and less than an hour’s drive from the iconic Kruger National Park and the historic towns along the Panorama Route. This includes the famous Blyde River Canyon, Pilgrim’s Rest, Graskop and Sabie. Why this is so important is that a big part of your recovery rests of the benefits of holistic therapeutic activities offered by White River Manor. The aim is to restore balance in your current life to facilitate a smooth transition to a new life. Activities range from sunrise game drives in the Kruger Park and interacting with elephants to scenic tours of historic sites, nature walks, playing golf and mountain biking in the countryside.  Weekly excursions to places like Bourke’s Luck Potholes and the Graskop Lift in the gorgeous Lowveld offers an holistic approach to treating addiction from all angles. Instead of focusing solely on physical symptoms, the White River Manor team incorporates activities that rejuvenate your entire being. It’s an approach that’s proven to having long-lasting benefits for lasting recovery. Putting the gorgeous setting and luxury facilities aside, the strength of White River Manor lies in its addiction expertise. The country treatment centre incorporates by a multi-disciplinary team of addiction specialists, consisting of clinical and counselling psychologists, psychiatrists, cognitive behavioural therapists, EMDR specialists as well as a music and art therapist, a pastor and a spiritual counsellor. Addictions treated at White River Manor range from alcohol and drug addiction to gambling, gaming and sex addiction. Dual diagnosis is a critical component of recovery and part of the team’s mission is to help expose the root of your addiction which may or may not be a mental disorder like clinical depression or bi-polar. Patients attend individual and group therapy sessions hosted by trained professional counsellors; a few themselves have walked their own road of recovery. At the helm are Giles and Jeanine Fourie who have more than 25 years’ experience between them in addiction treatment, having previously managed a highly successful long-stay rehabilitation facility in South Africa.  It goes without saying the treatment programme is world-class and highly effective. The team’s commitment to your recovery is exhaustive, regardless of whether you’re staying for 28 days or you’ve opted to stretch out your stay for longer. The location of the property is unique and key to the success of the treatment programme. You’re encouraged to participate in all that’s offered to rejuvenate mind, body and soul. Early morning walks, leisurely drives along breath-takingly beautiful mountain passes and hours spent in the bushveld gives you that serene time to get out of your head and be still and at peace in the moment. What’s important for many people is White River Manor allows you the flexibility to stay connected to your business and loved ones. You’re free to use your mobile phones and laptops and there’s a business centre on the property with free Wi-Fi and a video conferencing facility.  At the same time, you’re encouraged to put some distance between yourself and your ‘old life’ and focus on fitness and good health with delicious, healthy meals and early morning runs, gym sessions and spa treatments. What the specialist team at White River Manor strive for is the opportunity to provide you with the space and time you need to heal and build a renewed sense of self-worth. If you’ve made a commitment to seek treatment for an addiction or you’re looking for help for a loved one, take the first step and call White River Manor to schedule a telephone consultation and receive a quote. Addiction treatment at White River Manor is covered by the leading medical aid schemes in South Africa. White River Manor – Visit Website Call +27-(0)82-731-5939 (South Africa) or 1-800-205-5961 (Toll-free) Email: bookings@whiterivermanor.com Alternatively – Visit our affordable recovery option at our newly released White River Recovery Centre.  