 The 4×4 track, built at the bottom and west end of the Mbombela Stadium, offered a range of obstacles. This day was primarily aimed at allowing the non-serious 4×4 owner to explore some of their vehicle’s potential. Of course, expert marshals were on hand to advise and guide both novice and experienced drivers, and Lowveld club members also displayed their driving skills.  The Lowveld 4×4 Club is family-friendly, and the energy of the event also illustrated this. The entrance to the event presented farmer’s market smells, sounds and chatter and although I did not explore the various tastes on offer, it sure looked delicious. ALSO READ:4×4 club at Oribi Mountain Farm On the track, a Jimny driven by its inexperienced owner certainly showed its metal and I think also surprised its driver. The mud bath, right close and in front of the food stalls, did claim some sculpts. I think it should, and will, become a more worthwhile attraction when it is constantly populated by 4x4s.  Radio Laeveld was on cue to direct and encourage visitors to enjoy the pancakes, pizzas and the rest while a small group of Big Five Harley Club members also rode in to hand over a cheque of R5 000 to CANSA. The Lowveld Old Wheels displayed a couple of yesteryear’s wheels in full colour. Nope – there was not a chance in hell that they would consider doing a parade lap through the obstacles. “Cansa initiated the concept for this day and then Tiger Wheel & Tyre, our main sponsor, also came on board,” said Wayne Smal (Laeveld 4×4 Club member and organiser).  We’ve had about 15 entrants and the intent certainly is to make this an annual event. We would like to thank all stall owners and everyone who took hands to make this event happen.” Important to note also is that on May 18, the local leg of the national series of the Coopers Dust 4×4 competition will be presented at this venue.  If you are serious about 4×4-ing, you should attend as the formula applied is quite interesting. Its all or nothing scoring system is ruthless and competitors will most certainly tackle every single obstacle and use different lines, which makes for spectacular and fearless driving.  ALSO READ: Join the Lowveld 4×4 Club for some adrenalin-pumping action