 Perhaps the organisers should introduce a Kaskar class and a sin bin (for the well-matured, having-an-off-day barrier riders). The Rebel class may well be the one that will introduce newbies to the sport. “It is based on the American Legends, but we fitted a smaller engine,” said master racer Nic de Witt. He is a huge fan of these and owns the only 10 in the country.  “These are available for rental and purchase should you be interested. They are built on a good quality racing suspension that can handle much more powerful engines, but we kitted them with a stock standard 1400 Nissan engine developing 90kW and they weigh about 450kg. On tar they go well, but on gravel they may well be a handful and we will put them to the test today,” said De Witt before the start of the event. To build one costs about a R100 000. And, said De Witt, “Hopefully we will have all 10 on track at the next meeting in June.  The latter will be fun, so you better be there to see this.” The 1660 class had nine cars on track and, although one can always expect fireworks in this class, I did not see much of it during the first heat. Koos “Koos Cortina” Ludike, all the way from Burgersfort, boasted a huge rearview mirror on his dashboard. ALSO READ: Racers kick up dust at Nelspruit Oval Track It reminded me of Little Red Riding Hood, “Sodat hy beter kan sien, nè?” The ladies class presented four competitors. This is quite encouraging, and may well produce exciting racing in future. Hanneke Brits, out in her beautiful Corsa, ruled the roost though. She used to compete in the go-kart class and is thus quite familiar with the dynamics of oval racing. Amelia de Kock (fourth time on track) is certainly becoming more aggressive down the straights. So Brits needs to watch out for this tannie – she is ready to kick butt.  In the two-litre class JJ Barnard ruled the roost, with Johan Fourie in second and Wayne “Witblits” du Rand in third. Du Rand was not driving his own car though so I would suggest that perhaps Barnard had it easy this time around. Alex Coetzee in his Midget should, I think, move on to drifting. He is drifting the Midget all the way around the track. It is quite spectacular to watch, though. Quads, with only two competitors on the day, were won by Cobus Smit. I teased them before the race, suggesting that they take turns to win. Both he and Wilmer Els are seriously capable competitors. Chantea Wahlstrand on a 50cc quad built by brother Dean also took to the track.  On the last round she experienced mechanical difficulty and so Dean, to help her complete the heat and take the checkered flag, pushed her for just about half of the track. I am not so sure he’ll volunteer again, because it is exhausting – even for a young lad. June 1 promises to be spectacular with 10 Rebels on track. Some club members are still building and or finishing their cars. The ladies – well, they are ready for the crinkle cut…  ALSO READ: A tough time for the racers at the Glenwood oval