 MBOMBELA – Lowvelders went all out to treat the mom in their lives to a Mother’s Day they will never forget. The annual Sappi Mother’s Day Concert, in collaboration with Jacaranda FM, provided an occasion that will live on in the memories of those present for years to come.  The opening act, Stella and her band set the tone for the live entertainment and judging by the reception from the concert-goers, she did not disappoint. The musician from Carolina treated the audience to her soaring vocals and her performance of the popular “Hoop in Liefde” received wild applause. ALSO READ: Sappi Mother’s Day Sunshine Piano Finalists

Jacaranda FM presenter, Elana Afrika-Bredenkamp was the afternoon’s MC and she introduced the next group on the line-up, Just 6. They were fresh from taking second place in an a cappella singing competition in Russia. Just 6’s members wowed the crowds with their unique ability to mimic musical instruments with their voices and delighted the audience with their rendition of Miriam Makeba’s “Phatha Phatha”. Fezile Mavuso of Just 6. When they took to the stage, the absence of musical instruments was immediately noticeable. Their high-energy performance had the crowd on their feet and clapping along to the beat. While the mothers were treated to what was undoubtedly a musical feast for the ears, the botanical garden resembled a picturesque picnic garden and the thousands of Lowvelders in attendance, had their picnic baskets and camp chairs spread out before them. There were a number of attractions for the children who all queued at the Sappi Mother’s Day piano for a chance to tickle the keyboards and have a photo opportunity with mom. Ruan and Nakkie Von Wielligh. This meant that the mothers could kick up their feet and enjoy the live entertainment while the little ones scampered about and had their faces painted or stretched their limbs on the jungle gym.
There were a number of prizes to be won and the excitement was palpable as the winners walked on to the stage to collect their special Mother’s Day gifts. Maretha and SP Ferreira. The moment everyone had been waiting for arrived and everyone moved closer to the stage as the headline act prepared to perform. Matthew Mole took to the stage and belted out hit after hit to the adoring fans who held out their cellphones to capture his performance.  ALSO READ: Dressed to the nines with Care Buddies

The versatile artist describes his music as folk with an electronic “backbone” and people were pleased with his show. The applause as he played was deafening and the crowd requested an encore as he prepared to leave the stage. The Sappi Mother’s Day Concert was the perfect way to celebrate the mothers in our lives who are the glue which keeps families together.