 Entrant numbers were slightly down compared to previous years, but corporate participation seems to have found a second wind with four teams on the starting grid. Ten schools participated. And I must say that this event presented a wonderful calm, but no less enthusiastic, energy and most impressively, all entrants completed the full hour in their cars. It shows that the event and the skills of the learners have matured, and the competition has reached a new level of competency.  I will hasten to add, of course, that some pushing was required here and there towards the end (but then we are all friends here, né?), especially up the hill from the circle direction. You see, the organisers are a particularly adventurous bunch who have no patience for a totally flat racing circuit. There is always a short sting in the tail of the eV. If you do not know how this initiative/competition works, here is the short version. High school teams can enter in any one of three categories – each of which presents its own set of specifications within which the team has to design and build their electric battery-driven car.  Teams will be challenged by things mechanical, electrical, gear ratios, battery durability and a host of other things which need to be synchronised so as to enable them to race for an hour on this demanding track. And some of these cars can reach speeds as high as 45km/h. If you have a heavy foot, you may well run riot around the competition in the first 30 minutes, but then the lack of battery capacity will bite your rear end and disappointment will be your reward. The team from Buco and a first-time entry did brilliantly.  Not only did they run for the whole hour, but they also did the most laps. Forty-two, to be precise. Blackbird Vyster also did 42 laps. Another challenge for teams is their presentation to a team of stern judges who ask them all sorts of difficult questions about their cars, its technology, the development process and team interaction. And they get scored on this too! So watch this space for details on the night race later this year. And a high five for all those involved in organising and administrating this truly educational event.  If you want to see how to lean into a corner, pour ice into that cooling device after a driver change and hear a lady expresses her sheer delight at driving one of these cars, don’t miss it! And as they say on TV – it is all brought to you courtesy of your favourite motoring paper. There were three categories in which the teams could score points. Each category had its own percentage value as shown below. 1. Presentation – 35%
2. The appearance of the car – 15%
3. The number of laps completed – 50%  1. Buco Bombers / Blackbird Vyster – 42
2. Dragon Barberton / Radio Laeveld – 39
3. Ashes Penryn – 37
4. Green Electron Flamboyant – 36
5. Witblitz Deltek – 34 1. BMW Bergvlam
2. Ashes Penryn
3. Green Electron Flamboyant.