 MBOMBELA – Just 6 wowed the crowd at the annual Sappi Mother’s Day Concert which was held at the Lowveld National Botanical Garden. The band added a whole new dimension to making music by using their voices to produce sounds that would normally be made be a musical instrument. Kwande Cakata, Mtha Hospas and Nkosie Hospas from Just 6. Fresh off taking second place in an a cappella singing competition in Russia recently, they exuded confidence and an abundance of vocal creativity and talent as they delighted the crowd with their unique rendition of old favourites like Miriam Makeba’s Phatha Phatha. The band is comprised of Nkosie Hospas, who is the group’s primary arranger and composer. The other band members include Ntuthuko Malaza who is the first tenor, Fezile Mavuso, who is the second tenor, bass singer Kwande Cakata, first tenor Mtha Hospas and second tenor Rashaka Mbevhana. ALSO READ: Poachers come under fire Just 6 was established in Johannesburg in 2011 and quickly stamped their mark on the South African music scene. They have established a reputation for their crisp vocals and their unique style of music which they have dubbed Afro-vocal play.
Just 6 provided an energetic performance and one would not be able to tell that the group were performing just one day after their Russian adventure. Nkosie Hospas letting his baritone do the talking. Their distinct mix of contemporary jazz, pop, RnB, gospel and soul music was a sure-fire hit with concertgoers who bobbed their heads and clapped along to the music. ALSO READ: Police warn about the dangers of spreading fake news online The one thing absent from their performance was the instruments usually played by musicians. When they performed their opening number, it became immediately clear that they were able to use their voices to mimic the trademark keyboard, guitar, drums and saxophone sounds we are accustomed to hearing from other musicians.  The multi-talented group’s entire performance was without a single musical instrument which left the audience staring in appreciation and wonderment. Their second place in Russia is a sign that South African music is being appreciated overseas which bodes well for aspiring musicians intent on following the same path.