 The library operating system in the city and surrounding areas seems to be nonexistent. Libraries do not have a system in place that records available books, and tracks borrowed and returned ones. According to a resident, who has been a member of Nelspruit Public Library for 32 years, the librarians have been working without a system for more than two years now. ALSO READ:Things you can do to help yourself during depressive episodes and how to prevent them According to her, the librarians confided they could not figure out if a book she was looking for was in the library or not. “They told me that there is no system to check which books are available or not. They said they had been working like this for such a long time and they were told that a new system will be implemented soon.” The resident’s concern is that the library is used by students for their studies. “I am better off since it is for leisure. What about those who need it for their studies? How do they cope if they need a book, but cannot afford to buy one? And the librarians cannot find the books since they have not had a system to track anything for more than two years.” Lowvelder recently visited Nelspruit Library. The newspaper discovered that the librarians indeed do not have a system and have to physically look for a book if they do not know whether it is available or not. “We do not have a system which we can just check for a book without physically going to the shelves. Sometimes we also do not know if one has been lent out or not until someone returns it,” a librarian explained.
When asked if they would be aware of a book being stolen from the shelves, she said they would not.
“We operate in this manner and it is the only way.” ALSO READ:Tips to help you hunt for a job as the unemployment rate increases According to another community member, who asked to remain anonymous, the service at the library is poor.
“When you talk to the librarians they always look angry and do not do much to help us. It is like they are only working there because they do not have a choice. I have decided to use online books for gathering information. That way I do not ask them for any help. It is easier and I avoid their bad service. Most people who come here daily have adjusted and some are still doing so,” he said. Sibongile Nkosi, director of communications for the Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation, confirmed that indeed the local libraries do not have a management system. These include Nelspruit Public Library, White River Public Library, Nelsville Public Library, Valencia Library, Mbombela Regional Library, Barberton Public Library and others libraries in the Mbombela area. “Currently all the above-mentioned libraries do not have a management system, however, the department is in the process of securing one for all the libraries in the province. They are operating manually and books are issued using cards. These keep records on what was borrowed and returned.”Nkosi stated that libraries should have a management system.