 MBOMBELA – Local businessmen and -women converged on eBundu Lodge in Rocky Drift recently for the Kruger Lowveld Chamber Business and Tourism Networking Breakfast with Sanlam. The who’s who of the business world in the Lowveld were in attendance to listen as speaker Victor Kambule touched on a number of key aspects around employee benefits. Kambule’s topics of discussion included the new default regulations pertaining to employee benefits. He explored what is or will be compulsory for the employer.
His discussion included how setting up a fund in a particular business added value to the business and things to consider when choosing a pension or provident fund. Billy Mthetwa, Zodwa Tshabalala and Kobus Schutte. Retirement investments are constantly changing and his discussion included the future landscape of the desired retirement investment.
Networking is extremely essential in business and helps build relationships with business people from diverse ends of the spectrum. Whether you are providing financial advice or delivering a service, building and maintaining strong relationships with other business people serves to strengthen and add value to the particular business you are invested in. This was evident as attendees mingled and discussed the challenges they were facing in a relaxed environment. The atmosphere was one which was conducive to constructive engagement between like-minded business people. Sharing ideas in the business world helps make facing certain obstacles easier as someone else may have a solution or has experienced similar stumbling blocks in the day-to-day running of their business. Nqobile Zwane and Zelda Wright. This rings especially true when one factors in the different businesses represented at the breakfast. Attendees ranged from StepMed, Sanlam and the Royal Hotel to the tourism sector. The businessmen and -women could be seen chatting over a cup of coffee and interacting face to face as they tackled the challenges facing Lowveld businesses.They were amenable to their peers suggesting alternative ways to take these challenges on. The business landscape in the region is evolving and having access to a wide network of business people is an innovative way of ensuring that your business adapts to these changes and is constantly moving forward. Being dynamic and tapping into the wealth of resources available is a recipe for success in business, and ensures that it remains dynamic and will not stagnate as new ways of doing business are unveiled.