 OHRIGSTAD – A farm manager who illegally hunted more than R3 million worth of game on his employer’s farm, was found guilty. Johan George Boshoff (39) appeared in the Praktiseer Magistrate’s Court on May 3. He was found guilty of theft and received three years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years for theft and fraud and had to pay the owner of the farm R228 000 in compensation for damages. The crimes took place between February and December 2017 on the farm 514 KT in Boshoek where he worked. The owner told him hunting was prohibited. The arrest came about after a sting operation was conducted by the Noctuam Anti-Poaching and Lebowakgomo Stock Theft and Endangered Species Unit. The breeding stock that was hunted included eland, kudu, giraffe, blue wildebeest, impala, oryx and warthog, according to a source. Endangered species such as blue duiker and oribi were also apparently hunted by Boshoff along with a variety of outfitters and international hunters. ALSO READ: Two in court after arrest at Crossing MBOMBELA – Local car salesman, Christo Marius Coetzee (40) is set to appear for trial in the Nelspruit Regional Court on July 3 on charges of fraud involving false documents submitted to Wesbank for vehicle finance. The incidents occurred between October 2014 to November 4, 2014. Coetzee was also charged with theft in 2015 after an Audi that was stored on his property was removed from its storage place. According to Coetzee at that time, those charges were the result of a great misunderstanding. The case is continuing in court. He was out on a bail of R1 500. In another incident, Coetzee allegedly sold one Bobcat machine to three different people. Police are still investigating other cases, which include vehicle and insurance fraud and envisage that more charges could be added. Karin Erasmus. MBOMBELA – Pro-Life Pet Rescue, Rehabilitation and Adoption Agency founder, Karin Erasmus and Pieter Johannes Vorster’s case of perjury was withdrawn in November. At the time of going to press, pokesman for the National Prosecuting Authority, Monica Nyuswahad not disclosed the reason why the case was withdrawn against the couple. They were arrested at the animal sanctuary last July and released on a warning. ALSO READ: Sanef supports local journo after double voting