 MBOMBELA – Patricia de Lille from the Good party landing a seat on President Cyril Ramaphosa’s cabinet this week may have been the biggest surprise, but less obvious was the strong showing made by ANC politicians originally from Mpumalanga. The party’s provincial spokesman, Sasekani Manzini, said they welcomed the newly appointed cabinet “with glee and a great sense of optimism”. The most prominent to serve is the the former premier, David Mabuza, who reprises his role as deputy president. Others whose ANC membership resides in the province included ministers and deputies. Ronald Lamola and Jackson Mthembu were named minister of justice and prisons, and the presidency, respectively. ALSO SEE: Man arrested for murder of sibling girls Candith Mashego. Deputy minister positions went to Dr Reginah Mhaule (education), Fish Mahlalela (tourism), Thabang Makwetla (defence), David Mahlobo (human settlements and water), Candith Mashego (foreign affairs) and Sindy Chikunga (public administration). David Mahlobo. Dr Cassius Lubisi was appointed a director-general in the presidency. In Mpumalanga, Premier Refilwe Tsipane (formerly Mtshweni) announced her own executive council on Tuesday evening.  Manzini will remain MEC of health, Gillion Mashego of the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport, Vusi Shongwe that of the Department of Agriculture, Land Administration and Environmental Affairs, Thandi Shongwe at social development and Norah Mahlangu at human settlements. New faces include that of the SACP’s Bonakele Majuba as MEC of the Department of Education and Mandla Msibi that of cooperative governance. Pat Ngomane moves from the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liason (DCSSL) to finance as well as economic development and tourism. Gabisile Tshabalala is the new MEC of DCSSL and Lindiwe Ntshalintshali at culture, sport and recreation. “I have no doubt in my mind that these are individuals who will perform their functions to the best of their abilities,” Tsipane said. “These are men and women of high integrity, with unquestionable high work ethics and collectively have vast experience in political administration. “My decision on who should form part of the executive was influenced and informed by the need to balance the demographic imperatives of gender and experience.” ALSO SEE: Mixed picture for June petrol prices