On September 1, 1998, Jack Mileham and Peet Stoltz decided it was time for them to take their combined engineering experience (42 years at the time) and start their own business. They bought Hi-Tech Engineering and have since developed it to be one of the most successful engineering businesses in Mbombela. The volumes of work soon necessitated that they find a larger premises. They eventually found, bought and moved into the original Nelspruit power station built in 1959. In 2008, Jacques Malherbe became a shareholder. One of Hi-Tech Engineering’s largest ongoing projects is maintenance of the generators in the Kruger Park. The largest of these are being installed in Skukuza.  They specialise in engine and machine refurbishing, including crankshafts, engine blocks, cylinder heads, con-rods, dyno testing and service and repair of cars. “It was tough in the beginning, as we did all the physical work ourselves during the day and then still had to do the admin after hours,” said Peet.  “But yes, today we look back with gratitude, and would like to thank the many customers who supported us then, and still do today. We are not immune to the economic challenges of our time, but we look forward to the next 21 years of providing engineering excellence to the Lowveld and surrounds.”  “Ek doen al 17 jaar besigheid met Peet en sy span. Hulle doen al ons ingenieurswerk – is altyd by met advies, en werk is konstant van baie hoë gehalte. Hi-Tech Engineering is inderdaad een van ons staatmaker-verskaffers.”-  Jan Nel – Hino Mbombela,  “Peet en Jack doen al vir die afgelope 10 jaar al my ingenieurs- en meganiese werk. Hulle integriteit is rotsvas en die diens is eenvoudig die beste in die dorp.” – Braam Klopper – BNJ Motors,.  “Ek ken Peet en Jack al vir 30 jaar. Hulle lewer kwaliteit werk teen billike pryse – en, wel, ons is soos familie. Sien uit daarna om vir nog 30 jaar saam met hulle te werk.” – Pottie Potgieter – Lowveld Brake.  “Ek het vir Hi-Tech gewerk voordat ek my eie besigheid begin het. Ek is vertroud met hulle kwaliteit en die integriteit van hulle werk. Ek wens hulle net sukses vir die volgende 21 jaar.”- Chris Britz – Nelspruit General Auto Repairs. 