 There appears to be many misconceptions about South Africa’s annual census. On September 19, two Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) field staff members in KwaLanga in Cape Town, were suspected of child trafficking while conducting their work. The pair were gathering data from a household and were talking to a minor when residents, suspecting foul play, accused them of of being human traffickers. The situation escalated to the point where the pair had to seek refuge from a nearby home after residents gathered and threatened them with violence. The field workers escaped unharmed when police were dispatched to the scene and verified that they were Stats SA fieldworkers. As a result of this incident, the organisation is sending out an urgent appeal to communities that staff will be in the field from October 9 to November 6.


ALSO READ: Police watchdog says investigations into Masher shooting still ongoing The list of areas that will be visited during this exercise are listed below: Eastern Cape: Buffalo City Free State: Mangaung ALSO READ: Obtaining liquor licences seems to be an uphill battle

Gauteng: Ekurhuleni KwaZulu-Natal: The Msunduzi Limpopo: Polokwane  ALSO READ: MEC of education says they are ready for 2019 matric exams Mpumalanga: Emalahleni North West: Rustenberg Northern Cape: Sol Plaatjie Western Cape: City of Cape Town ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Hilltop pass accident claims two on R40 “The manner in which this incident was handled is regrettable, notwithstanding the damage to reputations this is likely to cause. We are requesting that communities please check the credentials of any person who comes to their door. “Stats SA field staff are issued with branded identity cards and field gear. Where possible, vehicles are also visibly branded.  ALSO READ: Plant a tree to honour conservationist’s recovery “In the event that communy members are doubtful of the legitimacy of the person at their door they are encouraged to reach out to the protection services and avoid acts of vigilantism.” If you need to verify that the person at your door is employed by Stats SA, please contact: 0800110248 