The Health Excellence Organization, in partnership with the Mpumalanga Government, presents The Health Excellence Congress and Awards. Stakeholders that are involved include the departments of health and education, Broadreach and Right to Care. These healthcare professionals are recognized for their selfless services and raising the standards of health in the province by living their oath. There are 24 categories and nominees are voted for by the public via SMS until October 31. There is a new category; “Community Health Stars”; for home-based carers that are taking care of HIV and TB patients. They must be nominated and will also be recognized at the award ceremony. The annual Health Excellence Congress and Awards takes place on November 15 and 16 2019 at Ingwenyama Lodge, White River.  Hon Refilwe Mtsweni-Tsipane, chairperson for MPAC (Mpumalanga Provincial Aids Council) invites all healthcare professionals and other stakeholders to a two-day HIV Congress, where there will be discussions on a collaborative fight against HIV and TB. This is also a platform for networking between HIV clinicians, academics, researchers, and policymakers. The congress mainly targets pharmaceutical companies, government departments, healthcare professionals, pathological services, radiology services involved in diagnostics, the mining industry (in healthcare), professionals and institutions involved in providing specialised TB care and treatment. Attendance of the congress is also a cost-effective way for an organization to build its brand, network and strengthen relationships within the healthcare industry. There will also be an exhibition running throughout the health congress. This will be an opportunity for exhibitors to showcase new inventions, projects, products, and research. This a perfect platform for delegates to interact with companies and update themselves on the latest advancements in healthcare. Let’s celebrate our healthcare professionals for a job well done and collectively fight against HIV/Aids in the province in this year’s Health Excellence Congress and Awards. Thank you to all the sponsors/partners who have contributed to making these events a success: TMM, Ingwenyama Lodge, NQ Boutique, Ndalo Hotel, Aspirations Functions and Events, RealTed Trading, Sisekelo Printers, Buang Trading, Kiaat Hospital, SAMA, Mpumalanga News and Daisy Lee Events. For more information      