 It was a proud moment for 210 graduates who successfully graduated from the Tourism Monitors Training Programme on Friday. Deputy minister of tourism, Fish Mahlalela, presided over the graduation held at Communio Church.    In collaboration with the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA), the Department of Finance, Economic Development and Tourism hosted the graduation ceremony for the youths. The monitors mean to ensure visitor safety and service excellence at the tourist attractions in the province. During that graduation, Mahlalela said, “The Tourism Monitors Programme is part of the broader government intervention that involves training, mentorship and deployment of unemployed youth in identified tourism attractions and sites.    ALSO READ: Local artist has debut exhibition until January “The objectives of the Tourism Monitors Programme is primarily the enhancement of tourism safety awareness at key tourism attractions and consequently the reduction of the number of criminal incidents that are directed against tourists; to eliminate opportunities for such crime and to integrate current tourism safety and awareness initiatives into sustainable programmes.  “The most unfortunate part is that in past years and months we have seen the province gaining a reputation of a high level of crime, criminality and social instability, service delivery protests and related issues that are negative. I was looking at the statistics of tourists attacks; it’s very bad,” Mahlalela said. “It is a matter that is worrying us at national level and we think as Mpumalanga you need to stand up and say ‘not in our name’. ‘Enough is enough’.   It cannot continue like this. You must create an environment that enables our tourists. We cannot accept this situation. We cannot allow the province to be terrorised by the minority, just because they are a minority.” ALSO READ: Young aspiring artist’s artwork put on water bottle Johannes Nobunga, CEO of the MTPA, said the province was excited to be part of the initiative, which offers young people an opportunity to participate and benefit from the development opportunities in the tourism sector.  “The exposure of these young people through this programme has empowered them with work experience through placement at various tourist attractions within the province.”