 This petrol-powered BMX motorised bicycle is an intriguing example of a reverse, and it comes from English builder Shaun Walker of Down & Out. We had the pleasure of meeting him a few years ago: he is a bluff, straight-talking northerner who, as they say, “knows his onions”. Shaun has been immersed in the custom scene for almost 20 years, building a solid business as trends and fashions come and go. As well as being a skilled builder, he is not afraid to try new things. And sticking a small engine into a BMX frame is his latest experiment. “As a boy, the BMX craze started and I wanted one bad,” said Shaun. “But coming from a working class background, in a family of eight, and with my dad working in the mining industry, money was just about non-existent.
“So I never got to have one for myself. But I always had a liking for BMX bikes. Then, around two years ago, I was looking online and one came up with a Honda Cub engine.” Shaun noticed that most of the bikes of this ilk had Cub frames modified to ape the BMX style. So he decided to make his own version, but a little differently. It was a sideline project, and as so often happens when someone is running a company, the project literally sat on the sidelines for a couple of years. ALSO READ: Driver in Joseph Mabuza hit-and-run case still not arrested “Our business building custom Triumphs was very busy,” said Shaun. “But I finally got it finished, and put up a photo online. It went through the roof, so I set up a new Instagram page. And after around three months, it’s grown to over 23 000 followers!” With all that interest came requests for bike builds and kits. And Shaun has delivered, with a new website and ordering system due to launch in a month or so. This prototype uses a Honda clone engine – a Chinese-made YX, which is a popular and reliable choice for builders of pit bikes, Dax and Monkeys. It comes in 125 and 140cc sizes, is kick-start, has a CRF-based bottom end and can be found for less than US$300. For a little more visual pop, the engine has been fitted with a Hustle magnesium ignition cover in bright red, and with a ‘Fully Blown’ logotype. The exhaust system is custom, and fashioned from stainless steel. Photo Credit: Simon Krajnyak The engine with its even cheaper gearbox is wrapped around a beefy custom tube frame with a solid hit of BMX DNA. The finish is raw steel, with clear coat applied by Pro Kustom, and the frame is effectively a hardtail at both ends: you will be standing on the pegs on the rough stuff. Shaun reckons the bike will get up to 60mph (100kph), so those with knee replacements need not apply. There is a bit of cushioning from the wheels, though. If you have followed Down & Out over the years, you will know that Shaun likes big wheels, and he has whipped up a set of 17×5 rims for this machine, fitted using custom hub spacers. Yes, that is five inches wide… The rubber is Pirelli’s MT60, in 180/55×17 size. ALSO READ: Feel the Guzzi rumble in South Africa There are matching Honda Cub drum brakes front and rear, and the wheels are laced to modified Cub hubs. Fuel is stored in the frame, and the capacity is around two liters (half a gallon). So it is no long-distance machine, but it will get you to the local skate park and back. The bars are from Renthal, and the saddle is from the English leather specialist Brooks, est. 1866. “We are going to be offering frame-and-wheel kits as well as full builds,” said Shaun. “In the future there will be an electric version too. And we will also offer kits with electric start, and full working lights.” Source: Bike Exif. Photo Credit: Simon Krajnyak