 MBOMBELA – The criticism originates from the fact that he had been charged with the possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition, as confirmed by Brig Leonard Hlathi, provincial spokesperson for the SAPS. A number of community members expressed their belief in Whitehead-King’s innocence. ALSO READ: Witnesses sought after hit-and-run in Mbombela Lowvelder reported on September 20 that Whitehead-King faced charges relating to the Firearms Control Act in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court. The case was remanded to October 2 for a formal bail hearing. ALSO READ: One person died and four were injured in an accident on the N4 near Malalane Below are some of the unfortunate comments found on social media: MC Heunis commented: “Lowvelder, looks like your fake news have been exposed. Only a few feeble minded old ‘tannies’ who believed your story…” Johnny Nel stated: “Fake news; not illegal; collector/dealer stock. See the dealer tags on the firearms!” Duncan Lekhuleni responded: “Stop saying naughty things. The guns belonged to his late father. He has a gun shop and only 10 firearms registered to his name.” ALSO READ: Horrendous accident between Malalane and Hectorspruit on the N4 leaves four dead Caxton Local Media’s legal advisor, Helene Eloff, explained why the media had to report on the court proceedings without speculating whether Whitehead-King could be innocent of all charges brought against him by the police and the National Prosecuting Authority. “When a newspaper reports on what transpires in court, that publication is legally bound to report what is said in court. In following the trial throughout and reporting on it, the media therefore by necessity provides a balanced and unbiased account of what happened,” Eloff said. She stated that common law dictates that anyone who publishes information or commentary on pending court proceedings, which could reasonably influence the outcome of such proceedings, is guilty of being in contempt of court. Lowvelder will therefore report on Whitehead-King’s trial as it unfolds in open court proceedings. Readers can rest assured that all relevant facts will be published. ALSO READ: Sentence handed out in Mpumalanga DoE fraud case Eloff asserted that the media may not label someone guilty or innocent of a crime while court proceedings are underway, as this will amount to defamation. “The media may be held legally liable, if their court reports do not accurately reflect what happened in court.” The police requested all concerned citizen to exercise restraint over their emotions. “The comments that are making the rounds on social media are very much regrettable and we request the community to allow the police to focus on the investigation,” Hlathi said.