 I hope they know what they are in for, because you know the thing about French models is that they have all the right buttons in the right places, offer many sensuous, soft-touch areas, love soft interior lighting and they release beautiful aromas when you enter the office space. Hmmm… Shall we continue on this note? Perhaps not, no? Well, tell this to a French model and she’ll have you tied to lamppost in soaking rain in no time.  The most fortunate thing about the Westvaal models is that they are not high maintenance, come with a five-year warranty and service plan, so you will not have to pay for any services for five years. She must be quite expensive then, this French model? Well, that depends on whether you have expensive tastes, want all the bells and whistles or, whether you will be happy with a nippy, hip, well-kitted mini? I said mini – yes, it does not necessarily equate to getting less! ALSO READ: The new Peugeot 108 puts smartphone technology on the road Okay, so let’s stop beating about the bush. Westvaal will now be selling the Peugeot brand as part of their product offering. At the opening launch and introduction, Peugeot area manager, Chazlin Haskins, alluded to many changes within the Peugeot structure and business model which they believe will rejuvenate the brand and restore public trust and interest. “We are proud of and exited about the newly released 108 and the 5008 models, which we believe will cause a stir in the small entry-level segment, as well as the very competitive SUV market. “Although South Africans are bakkie crazy, the SUV is the probably a better and softer option for families, and this is where we hope our SUVs will find traction. It offers more than most others. In the entry-level/first-time buyers’ market, the 108 offers a luxury alternative for the mindful individual who wants to stand out from the mundane of the crowds.” So, as they say in French: “Si votre esprit est passionné et français, Westvaal peut vous offrir un forfait exceptionnel en fonction de votre nombre.” If the folks at Westvaal can tell you what this means, you have my permission to buy your Peugeot from them. Go check it out! ALSO READ:Remember to do pre-holiday car checks to reduce road accidents