 Customers enjoyed shopping at the variety of shops with all the birthday specials. A coupon booklet containing loads of discounts were also handed out, and are valid until November 8. Brand ambassadors walked around with colourful balloons handing out shopping goodie bags from stores in the centre.    In front of Mopani Pharmacy, the children, and even some of their parents, had their faces painted.
The South African National Blood Service had a drive close to Woolworths Foods, where they managed to collect much-needed blood from donors. ALSO READ: LHS choir receives standing ovation and coveted second place
First-time donor Spyker Pelser (16) said, “I looked forward to this moment for a long time. I donate blood because my granny had cancer and had to receive a lot of blood. She is now in remission.”  At McDonald’s, Kevin Masia and Asanda Mankani enjoyed the jumping castle and outside activities with other friends. In front of Crossing SUPERSPAR, Hospice sold boerewors rolls, and master of ceremonies Dave Walters drove around dressed in a colourful blazer on his quad bike, entertaining shoppers and announcing special offers throughout the day.   Everywhere children were participating in the activities. The car guards, as well as the SPAR cashiers, wore balloon hats made by a clown on stilts.  Anita McGarry from centre management said it was a very successful day thanks to all the shoppers who supported the centre. “It has been a pleasure serving the community for the past 16 years.”
Christopher Christie, owner of Crossing SUPERSPAR, wished the centre a happy birthday. The store has been there since the centre first opened. ALSO READ: In It to Win It the last stretch
More than a million rand has been raised by Crossing Centre and the business community, which will be donated to local charities.  Up to 74 charities have been nominated. A committee will now decide how the funds will be spread and allocated. “I am looking forward to the big announcement of the charities that will benefit from the donations.” McGarry said.