 This is great news for hard-hit consumers. In 2019 the brand has added three new diesel models – the Combo Cargo Van, the Crossland X Enjoy SUV and the Combo Life MPV. The Zafira Life and Vivaro Cargo versions will follow in the first quarter of 2020. According to new research by AutoTrader, “diesel cars” is now the most popular search term ahead of petrol, hybrid and electric.  Diesel power is associated with lower fuel consumption versus comparative petrol models, with the result that diesel running costs are lower and less CO2 emissions are produced. The excellent low-speed torque afforded by diesel engines allows for better and more efficient overtaking, towing and gearing. The Opel Diesel Range caters for business and family applications and consists of the following models: Opel’s first diesel model in South Africa has been well-received globally – winning the International Van of the Year Award 2019 as well as What Van’s “Light Commercial Vehicle of the Year 2019” and “Light Van of the Year 2019”. ALSO READ: Opel Corsa GSi struggles to live up to name Opel’s B-segment SUV, the Crossland X, has been available in South Africa as a petrol model for the past 18 months. With its 5-star Euro NCAP safety rating, it has been awarded as the safest SUV in its class – a crucial feature for families. The new Diesel Crossland X returns a combined fuel consumption of 5,4 litres/100 km while still delivering the strong power and torque expected of a turbocharged diesel engine. It offers 230Nm of low-speed torque and 68kW of power, resulting in efficient overtaking and gear choice.  A jury of 31 specialist journalists from 31 countries voted the Combo Life as “Best Buy Car Europe 2019” at AUTOBEST 2019. This 5-seater, versatile peoplemover unites the comfort and dynamics of a passenger car with the spaciousness and variability of a typical multipurpose vehicle (MPV). With a segment leading load capacity of up to 690kg, sliding doors on both sides, and a towing ability of 1 100kg braked / 720kg unbraked, the Combo Life is all about convenience. ALSO READ: Opel streamlines Astra range, adds new OPC-Line automatic The big MPV in the Opel range, the Zafira Life, has just been launched in Europe and it will make its way to South Africa in the first quarter of 2020. The Zafira Life offers ultimate practicality, connectivity, comfort and safety for nine occupants. The big van in the Opel range, the Vivaro Cargo, keeps Opel’s LCV and diesel engine momentum going with its third
generation. Now it is even safer, more comfortable and more practical than ever, thanks to Opel’s ongoing vision to produce vehicles to suit the various requirements within a competitive industry.