 LOW’S CREEK – Luke, well known and well-loved amongst the Barberton and broader Lowveld community, was known for his ever-ready smile, restoration and rejuvenation of historical buildings, his conservation efforts and his sailing adventures. John, Luke’s farm manager of 47 years, was known as a kind, caring family man, highly regarded in the community. John, his brother Fabio Ntimane and Luke. Mark Norris, the man who handed himself over to the police shortly after the incident, and who was set to stand trial for both murders on November 4, committed suicide on October 2, after killing his mother Silvia, in her home. READ MORE: Luke Von Johnston’s family want answers For Luke’s family and life partner of 27 years, Brechi Hemphill, the past weeks have been extremely emotional. “It has been hard. He was my best friend and adventure partner, and after a long and difficult two years, we were eagerly awaiting the trial, and suddenly there is no accused,” she told Lowvelder this week. Lily, John’s wife, was at home with Brechi on the day of the murders.  They were also together when they heard the news of Norris and his mother, three weeks ago.  “I had just found out who the prosecutor for the trial was going to be, and I was telling Lily about it, when by lunchtime, we received the news of Norris. It was almost unbelievable.” What is particularly significant is how close the three men used to be. Both Norris and Von Johnston’s families were third-generation in the valley. Brechi recalls how John taught the young Mark about the bush from animal spoors to snares “weekend after weekend”.  She also recalls how Norris became particularly aggressive over the past years. From erecting an electric gate that she was not allowed to use – instead she had to continue using only the manual one – as well as placing broken glass bottles to prevent them from driving through to threatening staff members on the farm. “When he was charged, we asked for his guns and passport to be taken away, however his lawyer said that it was all just “sensation by the family” and that the possibility of Norris being a flight risk was just a rumour.” Luke and friend Dave Wilson planning a trip. Hemphill quotes Thomas S. Monson, “We can’t direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails,” and still believes that they will be able to find some comfort and closure after the inquest, once all the information is made publicly available. “Even in death, Norris will always be an accused murderer of three people.” At the two-year anniversary of Luke and John, messages of support and love continue to pour in for the two men, from far and wide. We choose to reflect on the wonderful cherished memories and celebrate their beautiful lives. Read these in the print edition today. ALSO SEE: Poignant farewell to Luke Von Johnston