 MBOMBELA – The 41-year-old was to stand trial in November for the double murder of his neighbours Luke Von Johnston (66) and John Khoza (73). It is alleged that he killed the two men in 2017. Norris shot and killed his 75-year-old mother, Silvia Norris (neé Tonetti) on Wednesday, before turning the gun on himself on their farm in Low’s Creek. According to police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, they believed that Norris used a handgun registered to his wife, Roxanne Norris. She declined to speak to Lowvelder, saying she was not in a good space and would be ready to talk at the end of the week. She did, however, post on the newspaper’s Facebook page about how her husband was fraught with depression since the shooting incident. Here is a slightly shortened extract. “A heartbroken wife for a man I could not save. I owe nothing to anybody but I have kept quiet for too long. Out of respect to my husband let me inform you that the first was not a double murder. “The state has to charge on the highest crime, by law, but does not mean that is what actually happened. One is innocent until proven guilty. “We have a full positive self-defence case going of which one day I will reveal the truths to the public and this newspaper who uses sensationalism and people’s emotions to make themselves money. READ MORE: Mark Norris murder-suicide: Farm community lived in fear “I despise how people have already decided he was guilty without knowing the facts. He was released out on a warning and not even on bail because there was not enough evidence showing foul play nor that he was a danger to society. “After the incident, he went into the deepest darkest depression of his life. No one is happy seeing two people die. The post-traumatic stress after the whole ordeal was too much to carry. “In and out of Akeso and in and out of therapy. “No one can judge a person for how they will react in a split second when they are being beaten and they feel their lives are threatened. It is a basic human right to defend yourself when attacked and the number of shots etc. printed in the paper were completely incorrect. “I have kept quiet out of respect to the other two families that lost their loved ones. Those loved ones were also not mass murderers but just two humans in a rage on a bad day. We are all human. ALSO READ: Mark Norris and his mother found shot dead on Low’s Creek farm “Only God can be the judge of that. Three families’ lives were destroyed that dark day. Since then Mark has wanted to die… every single day. “Before we could get to court next month to prove his case, he gave up. The trauma, stress and pressure was just too much. “No one was in the room or knew what happened or what had been happening within the family and with his PTSD when he left. Both he and his mom suffered from depression and none of you know what really happened there. “And all this beautiful love I had overflowing from my heart for him was still not enough to save him. So please, instead of judging without knowing realities, say a prayer for everyone involved rather and maybe mind your own business and be thankful that it wasn’t your life that changed forever. “My best friend, animal rescuer, conservationist, farmer, beloved family man and the most gentle loving husband who I am going to miss for the rest of my life. “No one wanted to be in Mark’s shoes the last two years. I can promise you that. No one wants to watch the love of their life wither away. My heart is shattered and I wish the world had been kinder and given him more hope. “To all those that offered their condolences and realised that this has been a tragedy for three families and not just two, thank you. Kindness is what I am clinging to.”