 WATERVAL BOVEN – The shooting death of well-known rock climber, David Wade, at Tranquilitas Adventure Farm has shocked the rock-climbing fraternity. Wade, who lived in Benoni, was murdered on Friday night after trying to help security guards who were being held up by gunmen. According to provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, Wade was at the chalets when he heard the security guards’ screams and went to investigate. “As he headed towards the noise, the suspects, who were attempting to rob the establishment, fired shots at him.” The men fled. David and Landie Wade. ALSO READ: SANParks responds to social media critics

Police were alerted and arrived soon afterwards. However, Wade was declared dead on the scene by paramedics. Police arrived with sniffer dogs, but were called back to Waterval Boven Police Station as community members attacked the police station, breaking windows and damaging vehicles. The officers returned to the station to provide assistance. A brick was hurled at the station commander. He was injured at the taxi rank while in pursuit of suspects. Police later returned to Tranquilitas and discovered the suspects’ vehicle, which had been abandoned about 500 metres from the farm entrance. According to his Facebook profile, Wade was a marketer and avid rock climber who took on a number of peaks in South Africa and had a passion for the sport. David Wade, pictured with his wife Landie, was an avid rock climber. ALSO READ: Horrendous murder scenes investigated by authorities

A post on the Mpumalanga Climbing Facebook page following the shooting, reads: “To our friends and fellow climbers. The following announcement comes with a heavy heart and a feeling of disbelief. Our friend, David Wade, was shot and critically wounded last night in an attempted robbery at Tranquilitas, Waterval Boven. “David was attempting to help the camp security guards who were being held by the perpetrators. Police were on the scene within minutes, but due to the adverse weather conditions, were unable to immediately track the suspects. “From the owners and staff at Tranquilitas, our sincere condolences to Lindie and the Wade family. Let’s always remember David’s passion for this wonderful sport.” Oupa Pilane. ALSO READ: Water crisis looms if taps run dry

A statement from the Mpumalanga Middelburg Cluster Waterval Boven confirmed that the Waterval Boven station was attacked by members of the community, who vented their anger about poor police service on Friday. The statement added that Middelburg Crime Intelligence Unit has deployed police to assist with “actionable intelligence”. The Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism president, Oupa Pilane, expressed his concern over the safety of tourists in the province and sent his condolences to the Wade family. “We are quite concerned about the safety and security of tourists in our province, We have interacted with the provincial commissioner, the MEC for community safety, security and liaison and the MEC for economic development and tourism, and we have been given assurances that cases involving tourists will be given priority, and we would like to send our condolences to the victim’s family.”