 What was meant to improve a family’s lives tragically claimed those of two little girls last week at Thithi section in Msogwaba. A family was devastated after cousins Buhle Mkhatshwa (6) and Sinomndeni Sibanyoni (5) drowned in their yard last Friday in a pit that was dug for plumbing for the toilet that the family was planning to install inside the house.  It was to replace the pit toilet the family currently uses. The newly dug pit filled with water after the rainfall last week.
Buhle and Sinomndeni lived with their mothers, who are sisters, and their grandmother. According to the little girls’ great-uncle, Isaiah Sibambo, it must have happened shortly after 13:00. “The girls had just arrived from school, and their grandmother was outside talking to people of Eskom, because we had a power failure,” he explained. ALSO WATCH: Bossies Justice celebrates a decade of crime fighting Sinomndeni was in grade R and Buhle in grade one at Shishila Primary School. “On a normal day the kids come back from school and watch cartoons. However, on that day we did not have power. That is the reason why the grandmother was outside talking to the people from Eskom.” The family members assume that the girls must have left the house to play outside, as they could not watch television.
The cousins accidentally fell into the pit.    “When the granny was done she went back into the house. One of the girls’ father came to fetch her. The grandmother and father started searching, but could not find them.” They asked the neighbours if they knew the whereabouts of the girls. At around 14:00 their bodies were discovered by another aunt while on her way to use the pit toilet outside. She saw Buhle floating in the water and jumped in. She found Sinomndeni underwater. After they tried to resuscitate the girls, the family rushed them to Themba Hospital. They were both declared dead on arrival.
Sibambo urged families that have pits in their yards to cover them. “For safety purposes and to avoid unforeseen accidents,” he said. ALSO READ: Mbombela woman kidnapped in broad daylight According to provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, they have recorded 15 drownings this year in the province. “I want to caution parents to take care of their kids, and kids and adults who do not know how to swim, not to swim. People with open pits must close them. They must also get permission from the municipality before digging.
“The public must stop digging pits and leaving them open. They should also avoid digging pits for sand without getting permission, since it is illegal,” he explained.    MEC for cooperative governance and traditional affairs, Mandla Msibi, in August issued a warning about an increase in the number of fatalities due to drowning. Capt Pottie Potgieter of the SAPS diving unit, said that people sometimes misjudge the depth, temperature and strength of water. “When kids drown it can be due to the lack of adult supervision. Sometimes people who cannot swim go out in boats to put fishing nets up and fall over, and sometimes victims swim in crocodile-infested areas,” he said. Potgieter added that people should never leave children unsupervised. “Kids must have a capable person and a person that can swim. Before swimming, always check the temperature, depth and if there are any objects that can injure you inside the river or dam. Do not swim when you are intoxicated and if you cannot swim, never go deeper than your waist,” he advised.
A memorial service was held for the cousins on Thursday. Their funeral will take place on Saturday.