 Pediatric Care Africa’s aid efforts in neighbouring Mozambique are still continuing following Cyclone Idai’s destructive aftermath. The aid organisation helps organisations in Mozambique and recently received a request to assist with surgery for a young lady from that country. “As part of our 1000 surgeries for one thousand children project of which 500 surgeries are for children in South Africa and 500 surgeries for children living in neighbouring countries such as Namibia, Lesotho and Mozambique we agreed to attempt to help the 18-year-old.” “Our cut-off age-in accordance with our mandate and regulations for surgical assistance-is 18, so we are very pleased that we where contacted before she was an adult and we could no longer assist her.” *Coleta (not her real name), was born with mandibular retrognathism and has ankylosis of the temporomandibular joint. The condition means that Coleta is unable to open her mouth. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Protest on old airport road Over the years, Coleta has undergone two surgeries in Mozambique and Zimbabwe which have unsuccessful to a large extent. The condition she suffers from, has rendered her unable to open her mouth more than a centimetre, making her unable to chew solids. The term ‘mandibular retrognathism’  means that her  lower jaw is set further back than the upper jaw. Sufferers appear to have a severe overbite. Ankylosis of the temporomandibular joint means a disabling condition of mastication in which the condylar movement is limited by a mechanical problem in the joint. Simply put, she can not open her mouth more than a centimetre and is unable to chew foods. It is a serious and disabling condition that may cause problem in facial growth, mastication, swallowing, digestion, speech, appearance, and poor oral hygiene with rampant caries. Facial asymmetry develops if only one side is affected. Disturbances of facial and mandibular growth and acute compromise of the airway invariably result in physical and psychological disability. ALSO READ: Family in court for fraud and theft Coleta is at significant risk of malnutrition, poor health, potential premature death, and dramatically lowered quality of life due to her significant deformity. She currently has intermittent jaw pain and can only eat soft foods. With her family’s minimal financial income, the amounts and types of food she has access to are limited. Of significant note, on her x-ray her third molars appear to be potentially impacting her second molars and have the potential to cause significant pain, further decreasing her ability to intake sufficient nutrition. Also, there is the risk of oral infection due to her third molars erupting and lack of hygiene from being unable to open jaw. There is reportedly no qualified dentist in Mozambique that can assist with dental complications with her molars without risk of seriously damaging or breaking her partially, if not fully fused, jaw. Her home country of Mozambique is unable to perform the necessary surgery to correct this situation and doctors have referred her for treatment in South Africa which requires the service of a highly skilled oral and maxillo-facial surgeon. The condition leaves sufferers looking as though they have a severe overbite. ALSO READ: Clean bill of health for the Excellence Awards The hospital in Beira that treated Coleta was destroyed in Cyclone Idai, leaving her with nowhere to go for medical assistance and zero hope. The Central Hospital of Beira, where she was admitted, provided some of the best care before it sustained disastrous damage, and the doctors communicated with the hospitals in Maputo and confirmed that Mozambique does not have the means or resources to perform the surgery she needs. Her mother only earns $37 per month, making it totally impossible for her parents to help financially. After considering the potential health implications if she does not receive specialised surgical assistance, Pediatric Care Africa has pledged its assistance for Coleta and are doing their utmost to assist her. 