 MBOMBELA – The Glass Bar at Emnotweni Casino was transformed into a Boktown Fanzone on Saturday afternoon, with the installation of a big screen and treats for Springbok fans. The floor was awash with green and gold shirts as everyone cheered for South Africa in a one-sided affair which saw the Springboks thumping arch foes Namibia 57-3. Host, Robin Jansma from Radio Laeveld kept the guests entertained throughout the afternoon while the pundits watched South Africa’s second match, after their loss to rugby rivals New Zealand a week before. Patrons who visited the bar submitted their score predictions before the match started and Jansma held a quiz during the interval with great prizes for the observant few. Nokubonga Mnisi and Robin Jansma. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Mark Norris and his mother found shot dead on Low’s Creek farm

Terrence Nyambi and Nokubonga Mnisi stole the show after answering their questions correctly and walked away with Springbok supporters’ gear, to the envy of all in the bar. The spectators shouted out advice and cheered each time a Springbok player made it across the try line. Jansma reminded all present that the event was hosted by the South African Bok Supporters’ Club to give the team a much-needed lift. “This is Boktown and we will be using #Stronger Together because the boys need our support, which is the reason we’re hosting this event. The aim is to get Lowvelders out and while they analyse the game, also impart some entertainment and fun while they slug it out against top rugby nations,” he said. Terrence Nyambi receiving his prize from host Robin Jansma. ALSO READ: Man accused of raping teen released on R2 000 bail

Nyambi agreed and for the first few minutes, sat on the edge of his seat, dispensing his own advice as the Boks’ first try was disallowed by the referee. Once the match ended, the guests mingled and introduced themselves to each other, glad that South Africa had crossed the hurdle and recorded a win at the Rugby World Cup. Boktown takes place again today, when the Springboks take on Italy. Doors open at 11:45.