 The disturbing moment was caught on camera by another tourist near Orpen Rest Camp on October 1. The video, posted online by Christos Kintis, shows two lions walking in the road while visitors in surrounding vehicles take photographs.  Then a man steps out of his car onto the road and stands next to his vehicle to take pictures of the dangerous animals. Another vehicle then screeches to a halt next to him and apparently tells him off. The clip ends there. Ike Phaahla, general manager of communications and marketing KNP, said they are aware of the video and that they would like to discourage that kind of behaviour. “If something happens in the wild, who is going to be held responsible? We do have clear rules of watching wildlife safely in the park.” He implored other visitors to assist by reprimanding those people stepping out of their vehicles, and to also report such incidents. ALSO READ: It is raining on Paul Kruger’s birthday! “The only official channel to report emergencies, snares, suspicious behaviour witnessed in the park is to either call or WhatsApp the park’s emergency numbers on 013-735-4325/013-735-0197 or
076-801-9679.” The call centre is manned 24/7, even on holidays, and is a highly sophisticated operational structure that ensures all calls received are dispatched immediately to all relevant parties to ensure a swift call to action.  Phaahla warned that the park “has no arrangement, nor agreement, with third-party groups to take these calls on their behalf and visitors are cautioned not to use any other platforms for reporting.” He added that visitors are encouraged to use SANParks’ official social media platforms as an alternative by sending direct messages on either on Twitter or Facebook.  “The emergency number can also be found on the Conditions of Entry document issued at the gate. We further encourage visitors to add these numbers to their mobiles before visiting the Park.” “Please note park staff are not equipped to take such emergency messages, or calls. These must be directed to the call centre.” He added that if they can locate that tourist, further action will be taken against him.