 According to research conducted the University of Cambridge and Tufts University, losing 10 per cent body weight may reverse type 2 diabetes. Keeping the weight off may also contribute to a dramatic improvement in health as well as stabilising cardio-metabolic risk factors. The University of Cambridge’s study included 867 diabetics between 40 and 69, found that 257 patients with a weight loss of over 10 per cent were in remission at the five year follow-up compared to those who maintained the same weight.  ALSO READ: Mbombela woman kidnapped in broad daylight “Our results suggest that it may be possible to get rid of diabetes, for at least five years, with a more modest weight loss of 10 per cent,” said epidemiologist Hajira Dambha-Miller from the University of Cambridge. Another study by the US’s Tufts University recruited 1 500 people with type 2 diabetes for a year-long lifestyle intervention and found that losing five to 10 per cent body weight improved blood sugar, blood pressure and cholesterol levels. It further added that people who kept at least 75 per centof the weight off for another three years saw even greater health benefits.  ALSO READ: Laerskool Malelane teacher charged with sexual assault “People tend to think of diets as short-term, but it’s really something that has to be lifelong. If you’ve found a successful way to lose weight, don’t revert to old habits. Figure out how to incorporate the changes you made to lose weight,” said study senior author Alice Lichtenstein. Health expert, Vanessa Ascencao says diabetes affects over 400 million people globally, over 3.5 million South Africans and it is the second most common cause of death in SA.  ALSO READ: LHS choir receives standing ovation and coveted second place “To help lower blood sugar levels and reduce unhealthy cravings, support your healthy diet with high-quality, powerful supplements such as the plant compound berberine extract, Bio-Berberine Complex. Berberine is shown to help support gut health, reduce inflammation and regulate metabolism. It is often used by diabetics and for people with insulin resistance due to its blood sugar balancing qualities. “It also contains the revolutionary SA innovation green tea extract, Origine 8, and chromium which help fight heart disease, regulate blood sugar levels and counter cravings,” added Ascencao. 