 LOW’S CREEK – Hours before her murder by her son on Wednesday, Silvia Norris made a phone call to her long-time friend, Edwin Sturgeon. She had been scared that her son was going to kill her. Mark Norris (41) shot his 72-year-old mother in the back of her head in front of the door to her bedroom in her house, on what is known as Tonetti Farms. He then placed the gun under his chin and pulled the trigger. ALSO READ: Mark Norris and his mother found shot dead on Low’s Creek farm The murder-suicide comes weeks before he was set to stand trial for the murder of Luke Von Johnston (66) and John Khoza (73). Norris shot and killed his neighbour, Von Johnston, and Khoza, his long-time employee, on October 24, 2017. The trial date was set for November 4. READ MORE: Luke von Johnston’s family want answers Recently a member of the Low’s Creek farming community approached the newspaper, expressing concern that Norris was going to do something – and take someone with him. The source said the entire community was living in fear of Norris, who habitually threatened “everyone” to the point that they were going about their business armed. There had been at least three incidents of his threatening people, but his bail conditions were never reviewed. “He already killed two people and had no remorse. He thinks he got away with it. In his mind he can do no wrong,” the source said. ALSO SEE: Boondock case: Mark Norris a free man Sturgeon had known Silvia for more than 40 years. “She carried an enormous responsibility the last two years. It was probably the most difficult time of her life. She is a mother, and supported her son like I imagine any mother would. “But despite that love and support… It is absolutely tragic.” Silvia phoned him on Wednesday morning. They spoke at around 10:30. She said she was scared. “Her son had asked her for her bank card. She refused, as there was not much in the account. He said, ‘If you don’t give it to me, I will start breaking up this house.’ Silvia then told him she would phone the police and in return, Mark responded, ‘Then I am going to shoot you, and then I am going to shoot myself’.” In the same conversation, Sturgeon confronted Silvia about his suspicion that Norris was abusing her. “She never disclosed it to me until yesterday (Wednesday) when I asked her. Nobody seemed to recognise that he needed psychiatric treatment. Outsiders suspected it, but nobody could do anything. “She finally realised the truth. Unfortunately, it was too late. She realised he was insane.” Silvia had asked Sturgeon to help her help her son, but when Sturgeon phoned her back with advice, she did not answer. “She must have already been dead.” Sturgeon added that Silvia “was a tremendous lady who followed in her father’s footsteps. It is unimaginable. He killed her in cold blood, after what she has done for him. In my view his actions was a self-sentence for the murders he committed two years ago.” The community have been suspecting that Norris wanted money to flee the country. “It was common knowledge that he didn’t plan on standing trial,” one said. There are also rumours of “unsavoury” types visiting the farm to collect debt. His heroin addiction was well-known. Silvia lived in a house separated from her son’s family on the same premises. Norris’ wife, Roxanne and their son were away on vacation. Silvia was found as though she had been on her way to her bedroom. She had suffered two strokes and used a walker. Norris was wearing socks. The police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi, said preliminary investigations indicate that the firearm belongs to Norris’ wife, as his licensed firearm is in police possession pending the trial. Silvia Norris’ house. A close friend who wanted to remain anonymous, said, “She knew that this was coming. She was afraid. He was violent. She locked him out of her house. “She feared for her life. She said that often.” She said she thinks Silvia blamed herself for how he turned out. “She made sure he was comfortable. He never really worked. He always got his way. He thought he would get off scot-free. He thought he was God. He always wanted to be in control. “There should not have been weapons on the premises,” she said. Hlathi confirmed that two additional firearms were recovered from Norris’ house – one a semi-automatic rifle.