 Zenith: The highest or most successful point (Oxford English Dictionary). Rolls-Royce observes the ultimate craftsmanship and perfection, and when better to do so than when celebrating the success and global adoration that has been lavished on one of the world’s most luxurious motor cars during its life cycle?  It is in this vein that, as the Ghost approaches the end of its remarkable ten-year tenure, the marque offers to collectors an extremely limited Zenith Collector’s Edition of the Rolls-Royce Ghost. The collection of just 50 Zeniths will celebrate the timeless elegance of a nameplate that has become the cornerstone of contemporary Rolls-Royce Motor Cars. In keeping with its name, the Ghost Zenith Collection will feature the highest levels of quality ever seen on a Ghost Collection car. ALSO READ: All the King’s cars Ghost is a luxury icon that carries with it a rich and extraordinary past. From the Silver Ghost, the motor car that established the moniker of “The Best Car in the World” over 100 years ago, to 200EX, the experimental car that introduced the concept of a contemporary expression of this nameplate at the Geneva Motor Show in 2009, Ghost has offered patrons of the marque a modern, lithe and driver-focused Rolls-Royce.  When production of Ghost began in 2009, patrons across the world were drawn to its elegant lines and dynamic offering. It quickly became, and remains to this day, the most successful Rolls-Royce motor car ever to be built, attracting a new group of young entrepreneurs to the marque. Indeed, the reduction in the average age of Rolls-Royce customers to around 43 is in part testament to Ghost’s global success.  Torsten Müller-Ötvös, CEO of Rolls-Royce Motor Cars, commented, “The Ghost Zenith Collection presents an entirely forward-looking study of the unique characteristics that have seen Ghost ascend to the status of the most progressive super-luxury saloon ever conceived. This unique collection provides patrons of the marque with a rare opportunity to own a motor car truly evocative of our time. Ghost is the most successful Rolls-Royce ever created and the Zenith Collection marks an important milestone in our modern history.”  Furthermore, 200EX is immortalized in a complex engraving on the centre console of Ghost Zenith. A blueprint-inspired artwork, enlarged to a point of abstraction, has been divided into 50 distinct parts, allowing each Ghost Zenith customer their own personal and individual work of art while at the same time uniting the collection as a group homage to Ghost. One’s eye is naturally drawn to the interior of the Collection’s doors, owing to the illuminated door pockets. Ambient light emits through perforated leather, enhancing the architectural elegance of Ghost’s interior.  One will also encounter a complex piece of marquetry, created by the master craftsmen and women in the marque’s legendary woodshop. Available in either wood, technical fibre or piano-finished veneer, the door marquetry transitions from the driver’s suite to passenger suite, emphasizing the dual nature of the Ghost. ALSO READ: Rolls-Royce unveils hybrid flying taxi at Farnborough Members of the Bespoke Collective from the Home of Rolls-Royce’s Leathershop have too been perfecting their art. The rear seats feature embroidery that takes its inspiration from the seat details of the original 1907 Silver Ghost.  This embroidery elegantly transitions from the rear to the front of the cabin, and in the case of the Extended Wheelbase Zenith, the headliner thrusts purposefully forward into the poised silhouette of the Spirit of Ecstasy. The seats themselves are accentuated in a contrasting leather, accenting Ghost as the ultimate four-seat limousine. These extraordinary motorcars, which represent the final opportunity to acquire this landmark, transformative luxury product, are currently being hand-crafted at The Home of Rolls-Royce in Goodwood, West Sussex, an establishment recognised as the world’s premiere global centre of luxury manufacturing excellence.