 The morning was celebrated in style, with the message of the day being “The circle of love, light and survival”. The theme reflected on the very first CANSA tea where Jenna Clifford, who celebrated her 60th birthday on the day, was the guest speaker.  “The event has come full circle with me organising the event ten years ago and welcoming Jenna Clifford at that time, and the same is happening today,” event organiser, Brenda Archdeacon told Lowvelder. The dress code and decor theme this year was “50 shades of pink” and the women went all out decorating their tables and dressing the part. History was made this year when Vulani Baloyi, an advocate, played hostess for 42 people at her table. “I had already filled my table and just kept remembering more people who would have liked to join,” Vulani said.  Other guest speakers included Tshepiso Phosa, who spoke about her difficult past and also the reason behind her new book, Fuelling Futures, and Marlene Pretorius, a cancer survivor who delivered an inspirational speech about her struggle with breast cancer. ALSO READ: Fine dining under the stars in aid of CANSA Macayle Visagie, 2019 CANSA Socialite Ambassador, provided entertainment with a poem and a lovely song. Maria Scholtz, head of sustainability of CANSA Nelspruit, thanked Archdeacon for her service to CANSA over the past few years. Brenda was involved in the organising of many of the CANSA Tea events as a volunteer and this year was her last event as organiser of this annual CANSA Tea.  Each of the women were treated with Freddy goodie bags, which included a Jenna Clifford gift, two magazines, a water and gift vouchers for Tindlovu Spa and Amazing Life Centre. This year, the award for Best Theme Interpretation went to Dudu Ngoma-Ntimba from The Reserve. Adele du Plessis and the team of Audi won the awards for both Best Decor and Best Spirit. The importance of early detection of breast cancer was highlighted during the morning and a voucher for screening at the CANSA Care Centre Lowveld was included in the goodie bags.Woman can book their breast screenings with CANSA Lowveld for Thursdays by phoning Thembi Ngwenya on 013-741-5441. ALSO READ: CANSA Lowveld supports women’s health this Women’s Month