 SPAR Lowveld on Wednesday handed GRIP a much-needed donation of R112 000. The money was raised by SPAR Lowveld’s loyal customers throughout the month of August. Shoppers were given the option of adding R1 to their trolley at the till, and SPAR committed to match the funds raised. Lowvelder reported earlier how the non-profit organisation ran into financial difficulties after funds were allegedly misappropriated by the previous board. However, the community joined hands to help GRIP continue to do its good work, as the donation attests. SPAR Lowveld ran the emotive campaign during Women’s Month and made a commitment to match each R1 donated by customers. ALSO READ: Thousands pilfered from GRIP “With the ever-increasing need to address the current situation surrounding gender-based violence, as a Lowveld community we could not have chosen a more pertinent time to stand up and back the statement ‘Enough’,” said Martin Webber, managing director of SPAR Lowveld. He added that SPAR is very proud of its values of “Family, Passion and Entrepreneurship”. “As women of diverse age, race, language and religious conviction – schoolgirls, students, working women, housewives and civil society – take a stand against gender-based violence; all saying, ‘this is enough’, we as SPAR Lowveld felt that we needed to add our voice. “We are also very conscious of the need to be courageous in living by our values. We, together with the help and commitment of our Lowveld community to this cause, managed to raise the funds. We trust it will aid the selfless work that the team at GRIP continue to deliver daily. ALSO READ: GRIP is in need of your donation “We commend our Lowveld community on their heartfelt commitment on joining SPAR in making a stand against gender-based violence in South Africa,” Webber concluded. When GRIP founder, Barbara Kenyon and Licky Thusi, GRIP CEO received the donation, they could not hide their excitement. “For more than 19 years SPAR Lowveld has been a faithful friend of GRIP and today they have excelled in their commitment to the community. “We were so relieved when they approached us with their generous matching grant to celebrate women in Women’s Month by assisting women who are in trauma,” said Kenyon. “Due to the past few months’ very traumatic happenings where GRIP’s coffers have emptied, it has been dark days, and you know the saying, ‘when days are dark, friends are few’. So it has meant the world to us when SPAR Lowveld approached me and Thusi,” she added. Kenyon thanked SPAR Lowveld and all the community members who donated.