 True to its innovative nature, South Africa’s first online property market place, Private Property, has created the Real Estate Industry Summit (REIS), where top industry experts will share insights aimed at igniting future growth of the South African property sector. “In its inaugural year, REIS 2019 will feature a range of top speakers accompanied by local and international property experts, that will engage the industry through robust dialogues and keynote addresses, aimed to inspire a new approach in how we see the property market, ” says Tracey-Lee Miller, Brand and Marketing Executive for Private Property. The REIS Summit coincides with twenty-one years since the establishment of Private Property, with the event themed The RE-Evolution of the Real Estate industry in South Africa. Confirmed to take place at the Sandton Convention Centre on Friday, 18 October 2019, Private Property will host hundreds of delegates at the conference which takes place ahead of The Property Show, South Africa’s premier property expo takes place on the same weekend and at the same venue REIS. “The Real Estate Industry Summit is a business to business event while The Property Show is wholly consumer facing” Miller says.  She adds that the real estate industry event is an opportunity for attendees to engage key leaders and opinion makers and will leave delegates feeling empowered to better serve their complex and changing customer needs. Real Estate Industry Summit discussion topics will include:  Geoff Lee, Managing Executive of Absa Home Loans, says “At Absa Home Loans, our ambition is to house the nation and shape the industry in a meaningful way. Strategic partnerships are essential to bring this ambition to life, which is why we have chosen to collaborate with Private Property in bringing REIS to our market. This ground-breaking platform will enrich conversations and connection with industry stakeholders and will have an extremely positive impact on the property industry.”  “Private Property looks forward to hosting industry leaders at an event that will set a new benchmark in the property sector,” says Amasi Mwela, Private Property’s Chief Executive Officer. “We have aligned ourselves with a multitude of key stakeholders in the industry to ensure the summit provides value to the consumer. We want REIS to become the premier platform for Private Property and its partners to ignite conversations and act as a catalyst for greater collaboration that will move the industry forward,” adds Mwela.  Confirmed key speakers such as former President of South Africa Kgalema Motlanthe, international TED Talk speaker Julian Treasure and international real estate expert Wendy Forsythe will share insights on these and other issues.  For more information on the event and to purchase tickets, please visit the website. To join the conversation, follow the social media pages here: Facebook: @AgentConnectSA Twitter: @AgentConnectSA LinkedIn: Agent Connect South Africa