 They were the winners of the annual eV Challenge competition and were treated to a visit to the Nissan factory in Rosslyn, spent some time at the Sci Bono centre and various other activities. Citybug sponsored their transport for the two-day trip. Accommodation was sponsored by Stay Easy in Pretoria, with the support of Tsogo Sun in Mbombela and of course, Nissan South Africa facilitated the tour of the Nissan factory.
So, let’s hear it from the horses mouth; “Staying in an hotel was just WOW! The information gathered from the visits to Sci Bono and Nissan was an eye-opener on so many levels. That will stay with me as a motivator for a long time.” “The trip was superb. From walking around the scientific showcase at Sci Bono to the tour of the Nissan production line-up. The entire trip was packed with knowledge and fun. The best part is the bonding with like-minded individuals sharing similar interests and backgrounds – invaluable! Thanks to all our sponsors who made this such a memorable experience.” “Dit was ‘n grootse belewenis vir elkeen van ons op die toer. Sci Bono bied ‘n magdom van informasie en inspirasie. Stay Easy se ontbyt was die beste. Die besoek aan die Nissan-fabriek was pure avontuur – vanaf die Datsun geskiedenis tot by die NP200. Dit was ‘n ongelooflike ervaring waarvoor ons baie dankbaar is.” ALSO READ: Former Nissan MD to focus on African markets  “Dankie aan almal wat die toer moontlik gemaak het. Ons het in styl gereis (high five to Citybug), gebly en geleer. Sci Bono bied van stroombane tot lewendige eksperimente oor alles en nog wat. Go-carts by Menlyn – wel, kan ons nog kry, asseblief? Die Nissan-fabriek is a toonbeeld van presisie en ordelike beplanning en het ons na ons asems laat snak. Verstommend. ‘n Ervaring wat ons lank nie sal vergeet nie.” “Dit was ‘n wonderlike geleentheid en die kos was awesome. Die besoek aan Nissan was seer sekerlik ‘n persoonlike hoogtepunt. By Sci Bono het ek waterstof binne ballonne aan die brand gesteek as deel van ‘n eksperiment – fassinerend! Moeilik – onmoontlik byna, om ‘n gunsteling by Sci Bono te kies.” “The long and the short impression is that this tour was amazing and informative on every level.” (Charl was the Citybug driver and chauffeur for this trip and he joined in all the activities.) “It was unbelievable. Although we did not see the Nissan Leaf (it was exhibited elsewhere) it did not distract anything from the visit to Nissan. A visit to Sci Bono is a must for every school. I will certainly take my own kids there soon. To have experienced the delight of the learners on this tour was heart-warming and rewarding.” ALSO READ: Ultimate Nissan Navara Guy and Girl announced “The visit to Nissan was truly enlightening and informative. The history of Nissan and its founder, Hashimoto, gave me greater insight into the challenges we face. I want to design an electric car battery that will last for a long time. The tour was just amazing and thank you to our sponsors.” “Die deursigmodel van ‘n ratkas by Sci Bono was indrukwekkend – soos alle van hulle uitstallings. Om te sien hoe ‘n stuk plaat uiteindelik in ‘n voltooide produk (NP200/330) by die Nissan fabriek uit ry, was uiters insiggewend. Die organiseerders en borge verdien ‘n pluimpie – julle het ‘n nuwe wêreld vir die kinders oopgemaak.” 