 MBOMBELA – Lowvelders seeking security, comfort and tranquillity when making that all-important decision to purchase a home need look no further. Real estate agents and the who’s who of the local property scene descended on Elawini Estate last Thursday at a launch of the new development. The second phase of Elawini Luxury Residential Estate boasts more than 160 stands which overlook the river. Dubbed “Upper Elawini” by Eastside Property Developments director, Krishan Naidoo, the available stands have been flying off the shelves. “Of the more than 160 stands at Upper Elawini, seven were sold at the launch. Breda van Niekerk, Byrne Millard, Llewellyn Barton and Krishan Naidoo. The available stands included building packages, with the biggest one measuring 6000 square metres. “Eastside Property Developments are a local outfit which has teamed up with the Atterbury Group to develop the second phase. It is comprised of myself and Llewellyn Barton in a joint venture with Atterbury.” ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Mark Norris and his mother found shot dead on Low’s Creek farm Tarryn Collie. According to Naidoo, the project will see the same high standards which have become synonymous with Elawini Luxury Residential Estate being upheld in setting the benchmark in terms of the luxury living with which it is associated. Breda van Niekerk also attended the launch and said, “We have sold 120 stands in the last year-and-a-half, which makes us officially the fastest-growing estate in Mbombela with between 60 to 80 estate agents conducting sales. “Initially, we stood at 16 stands a year and the new look and feel of Elawini has contributed to this dramatic shift. The manicured gardens, security and amazing natural views and the amenities available to residents give it a five-star hotel look and feel,” he said. ALSO READ: The Marriage Course will set you on course for a strong rejuvenation of your marriage

Plans are afoot for the construction of a Curro Castle across the river from the new development and Tarryn Collie, regional marketer for Curro Holdings, expanded on the benefits the new Curro school would hold for Elawini residents. “A Curro school on their doorstep is a big plus for Elawini,” she said. The packages for new buyers include discounts on school fees for Elawini at the school, which will see new grades being added incrementally, providing ease of mind for homeowners with school going children.