 The T-Cross leaves a lasting impression and right on first sight. The striking front end highlights the vehicle’s family affiliation while the exterior emphasises the individuality of the new SUV model. Attractive highlights include the successful combination of a powerfully expressive front spoiler and a large, wide radiator grille, at the outer ends of which the headlamps are integrated. The light units are designed to be long and flat, and extend far into the flanks. This arrangement gives the new T-Cross an unmistakeable appearance from the front. The lower section of the front end is characterised by distinctive recessed fog lights and integrated daytime running lights. The positioning of the fog lights and daytime running lights emphasise the height of the vehicle front. If the optional LED headlights are installed, the daytime running lights share the same housing.  On the sides of the T-Cross, two horizontal sharp character lines from front to rear underline the dynamic appearance of the compact SUV. The large wheel arches also emphasise the striking appearance. ALSO READ: Volkswagen still South Africa’s best-seller The latest addition to the Volkswagen SUV range offers easy access for all passengers through four large doors – a major advantage of the modular transverse matrix (MQB), which allows the driven front axle to be positioned much closer to the vehicle front. This facilitates the vibrant and powerful SUV design that gives the T-Cross its unmistakable performance, while also creating a remarkably generous wheelbase. In addition to easier entry, vehicle occupants also benefit from a significant increase in interior space and legroom for both rows of seats. The T-Cross provides good visibility. Passengers enjoy a superior view and good all-round visibility thanks to the elevated seating position.
The large-format dash pads correspond in colour and structure to the seat materials. This gives the interior of the vehicle a cool, sporty look. Electric windows on all four doors and a height-adjustable driver and passenger seat also come as standard.  The Driver Alert System comes standard whilst optional equipment available on the T-Cross includes the Front Assist area monitoring system, the lane-keeping assistant Lane Assist, Hill Start Assist, the proactive occupant protection system, automatic adaptive cruise control, Park Assist and the Blind Spot Detection lane change assist system with the integrated Rear Traffic Alert. The T-Cross top-scored in every single Euro NCAP safety test. The T-Cross is available with the 1.0 TSI turbocharged petrol engine delivering 85kW and a more powerful 1.5 TSI three-cylinder engine delivering 110kW (from the fourth quarter of 2019) and the entry-level 1.0 TSI engine delivering 70kW (from the first quarter of 2020). ALSO READ: Volkswagen groom a new generation of entrepreneurs 