 MBOMBELA – A routine visit to i’langa Mall turned into a frantic search for Erika Tholet’s wedding ring last week. The last thing she remembered was removing the ring to apply hand cream before exiting her car. Tholet and a friend were visiting the mall for a bite to eat and, only after having had their breakfast, did it dawn on her that her most prized possession was lost. “After the breakfast I noticed that the ring was gone and thought that I may have left it at home. I searched frantically and contacted my mother-in-law who works at Mopani and a few jewellery stores in case someone had picked it up and was trying to sell it,” she said. As fortune would have it, Tholet’s mother-in-law contacted the mall security, who tasked security guard Justice Mhaule with searching for the ring. According to Mhaule, he searched for about an hour before finding the lost ring in the mezzanine parking on the second floor.

ALSO READ: The Marriage Course will set you on course for a strong rejuvenation of your marriage Erika Tholet and Justice Mhaule. The security guard, who has been employed at the mall for one year this September, combed every nook and cranny of the parking lot before finally finding the ring. At a time in our country when mayhem, murder and robbery rule the roost, Mhaule admits that the thought of concealing his find did cross his mind. “For a fleeting moment, I though about keeping it, but realised that I would expect it to be returned if the situation was reversed. “It is all about being honest and setting an example to others who may find themselves in a similar situation.”

ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Mark Norris and his mother found shot dead on Low’s Creek farm

He described himself as a deeply spiritual person who always sought to do the right thing. Tholet’s joy after learning that the ring had been found and would be returned to her was unmatched. “It is both my engagement and wedding ring and holds tremendous sentimental value. I was in tears when I could not find it. That quickly turned to tears of joy after I was told that Justice had found it,” she said. She added that her biggest relief was knowing that there were honest people out there who still believed in doing the right thing. “Justice is my very own personal hero, because he chose to do the right thing even though he could easily have kept mum about finding my ring. My husband offered to buy another one but I didn’t want that. I wanted the ring I had lost.”