 KAAPSEHOOP – The square in the centre of Kaapsehoop came alive with activity this weekend as hordes of people enjoyed themselves at the Wild Horse Festival. The annual event was bigger and longer this year, running for three days, and was packed with loads of entertainment for children and their parents. The festivities kicked off on Friday evening at 18:00 with the Artz Africa Cultural Gallery opening, at which the festival artist, Winston Mamajalifa, exhibited his works alongside established Mpumalanga artist, Bob Mnisi, as well as upcoming artists Shane Hlope, Pina, Ayanda Nkosi, Terrence Mabaso and Vanrooy Soondlane. Hans and Chrystal-Lea van der Westhuizen. ALSO READ: Lowveld horse riders excel at national schools league

A definite highlight was the Clivia School drum majorettes who delivered a stunning performance on Saturday morning. A hot topic on the programme was nature conservation and caring for the environment, and the Snare Busters took the children into the rocks for a hands-on demonstration on how a metal detector works and how to dispose of waste while caring for the environment. The emphasis was certainly on all things local, and the stalls had tons of locally made food, art and a whole lot more for the palate.A fun food-and-drink-crawl offered crawlers the opportunity to meander through the whole village, visiting five different restaurants where they received a special drink and culinary treat at each. Steven Muller. ALSO READ: Cross Country runners battle it out at UMP

The festival drew a number of visitors from foreign shores who marvelled at the uniqueness of Kaapsehoop and the astounding natural beauty in the area. One of the organisers, Andrea Fourie, said the funds raised will be used to improve the roads infrastructure in the area. Christine Bain, who visited from Australia, said these efforts by residents to preserve the quaint town were commendable. A highlight of every Lowvelder’s weekend was the Rugby World Cup match between South Africa and Namibia on Saturday, with proud supporters donning the green and gold in support of the Boks. Avid rugby fans were glued to the big screen televisions which broadcast the match.